<TITLE>Anarchism</TITLE>
Anarchism is the anti-authoritarian political belief that people can organize themselves without having a state or a government in power. Anarchists also believe that participation should never be forced by other people.

Anarchism is "a cluster of doctrines and attitudes centered on the belief that government is both harmful and unnecessary." The term "anarchism" derives from the Greek αναρχία . 

In the common language, the word anarchy is often used to describe chaos or anomie. However, anarchists do not promote this. Rather, they define "anarchy" as a way of relations between people. Once put into place these relations work on their own.

 Individual freedom, voluntary association and opposition to the state, are important beliefs of anarchism. There are also big differences between anarchist philosophies on things like whether violence can be used to bring anarchy; the best type of economy; the relationship between technology and hierarchy; the idea of equality; and the usefulness of some organization. 

There are many anarchists who reject capitalism and support socialism , they are called anarcho-socialists and individual socialists. Also, there are some anarchists called anarcho-capitalists who oppose governments, but support capitalism and reject socialism. Finally, there are "anarchists without borders" who hold that because people will be free in an anarchy to pursue voluntarily any economic structures they want , the debate between anarcho-socialists and anarcho-capitalists is ultimately a silly diversion.

<TITLE>Autism</TITLE>
Autism is an emotional disorder characterized by a profound withdrawal from contact with people, repetitive behavior, and fear of change in the environment. The emotional disorder is impacting the brain's ability to receive and process information. People who have autism find it difficult to act in a way that other people think is "normal". They find it difficult to talk to other people, to look at other people and often do not like being touched by other people. A person who has autism seems to be turned inwards. They may talk only to themselves, rock themselves backwards and forwards, and laugh at their own thoughts. They do not like any type of change and may find it very difficult to learn a new behavior like using a toilet or going to school. 

Autism is caused by the way that the brain develops, both before and after a baby is born. Autism is a "spectrum disorder". This means that some people who have autism are only mildly affected. These people may go to regular schools, go to work, and have partners and families. Mild autism is called Asperger Syndrome or "High functioning Autism". Some people are more badly affected. These people may be able to take care of most of their own needs at home like dressing and getting food, but not be able to have a regular job or travel alone. A person who has severe autism may need to be cared for all their life. 

Autism seems to run in families. Parents with an Autistic Spectrum Disorder often have children with Asperger Syndrome or with more severe Autism. Sometimes people who have autism are extraordinarily gifted or talented. These people are said to have savant syndrome. They are often very good at just one thing in particular, like mathematics, playing the piano or remembering football scores. 

The prevalence of Autism is about 1-2 people of every 1,000.

A normal baby without autism will usually look at people talking, look at other people's faces, smile, and be interested in other people. Autistic babies, though, may like objects more than faces and other people. They may look for a second at a face, but quickly turn. They may not smile, or may just smile at what they're interested in.

Autistic children may usually like to be by themselves, without other people around. They may not be interested in making friends. They may also not react normally to hugging and other signs of love by their parents. This does not mean that they do not love their parents, they just do not know how to say it.

They may also not see other people's feelings; for example, they might not see much difference between whether a parent is smiling or being sad. They may laugh and cry at the wrong times.

 An autistic child might not try to talk, point, or otherwise try to get a message across by 1 year of age. Some don't understand their language at all. Some autistic people do not speak. Many are not good at talking with other people.

 Some autistic people spend a lot of time doing the same thing over and over again, or be interested in unusual things; some might spend a lot of time waving their arms around, walking on their toes, or putting things in order. An autistic person might spend a huge amount of time putting toys in lines or patterns and may get angry if someone bumps something out of place.

Some do not want any change, and will do exactly the same things every day without change—such as what they eat, when they eat, getting dressed, brushing their teeth, or going to school—and may even get upset if any change takes place to this. They may also be interested in strange things and may spend all of their time learning about their interest.

 Autism was first named in 1943. Leo Kanner did a study of 11 children and found unusual things about them. He called it early infantile autism. Around the same time, another doctor, Hans Asperger, did another study on nearly the same thing. His discovery is now called Asperger syndrome, while Leo Kanner's discovery is called autistic disorder, childhood autism, infantile autism, or simply autism.

<TITLE>Albedo</TITLE>
The albedo of an object is the extent to which it reflects light, defined as the ratio of reflected to incident electromagnetic radiation. It is a unitless measure indicative of a surface's or body's diffuse reflectivity. The word is derived from albus, a Latin word for "white".

<TITLE>A</TITLE>
A is the first letter of the English alphabet. A is a usual symbol for a low central vowel, as in "father"; the English long a is pronounced as a diphthong of ĕ and y. The corresponding letter of the Greek alphabet is named alpha. Alpha and omega, the last letter of the Greek alphabet, symbolize the beginning and the end. In musical notation the letter A is the symbol of a note in the scale, below B and above G.

<TITLE>Alabama</TITLE>
Alabama is a state in the United States. Its capital city is Montgomery. The largest city is Birmingham. It became a state in 1819.

Alabama is the thirtieth largest state in the United States with 52,423 square miles of total area. Also 3.19% of the area is water, making Alabama twenty-third in the amount of surface water, also giving it the second largest inland waterway system in the United States. About three-fifths of the land area is a plain with a general downward towards the Mississippi River and the Gulf of Mexico. The North Alabama place has mostly mountains, with the Tennessee River cutting a large valley creating many creeks, streams, rivers, mountains, and lakes.

The states bordering Alabama are Tennessee to the north; Georgia to the east; Florida to the south; and Mississippi to the west. Alabama has coastline at the Gulf of Mexico, in the very southern edge of the state. Alabama ranges in elevation from sea level at "Mobile Bay" to over 1,800 feet in the Appalachian Mountains in the northeast. The highest point is "Mount Cheaha", at a height of 2,407 ft . Alabama's land has 22 million acres of forest or 67% of total land area. "Suburban Baldwin County", along the Gulf Coast, is the largest county in the state in both land area and water area.

 The state is classified as subtropical Cfa under the Koppen Climate Classification. The normal annual temperature is 64 °F . Temperatures are most of the time to be warmer in the southern part of the state with its close proximity to the Gulf of Mexico, while the northern parts of the state, mostly in the Appalachian Mountains in the northeast, tend to be slightly cooler. Most of the time, Alabama has very hot summers and mild winters with copious rain throughout the year. Alabama receives an average of 56 inches of rainfall annually and enjoys a lengthy growing season of up to 300 days in the southern part of the state.

Summers in Alabama are among the hottest in the United States, with high temperatures averaging over 90 °F throughout the summer in some parts of the state. Alabama also gets many to tropical storms and even hurricanes. Areas of the state far away from the Gulf are not immune to the effects of the storms, which often dump big amounts of rain as they move inland and weaken.

The United States Census Bureau, as of July 1, 2008, estimated Alabama's population at 4,661,900, which is an increase of 214,545, or 4.8%, since the last census in 2000. This has a natural increase since the last census of 121,054 people and an increase because of net migration of 104,991 people into the state. Immigration from outside the United States resulted in a net increase of 31,180 people, and migration within the country got a net gain of 73,811 people. The state had 108,000 foreign-born , of which an estimated 22.2% were illegal immigrants .

 The United States Bureau of Economic Analysis, the 2008 total gross state product was $170 billion, or $29,411 per capita. Alabama's 2008 GDP increased 0.7% from the past year. The single largest increase came in the area of information. In 1999, per capita income for the state was $18,189.

Alabama's agricultural outputs are poultry and eggs, cattle, plant nursery items, peanuts, cotton, grains such as corn and sorghum, vegetables, milk, soybeans, and peaches. Although known as "The Cotton State", Alabama is between eight and ten in national cotton making, according to many reports, with Texas, Georgia and Mississippi making up the top three.

Alabama's company outputs are iron and steel products ; paper, lumber, and wood things; mining ; plastic things; cars and trucks; and apparel. Alabama also makes aerospace and electronic things, mostly in the "Huntsville" area, location of NASA George C. Marshall Space Flight Center and the US Army Aviation and Missile Command, headquartered at "Redstone Arsenal."

 "Public primary and secondary education" in Alabama is under the review of the Alabama State Board of Education as well as local oversight by 67 county school boards and 60 city boards of education. Together, 1,541 separate schools have education for 743,364 elementary and secondary students.

 Alabama's programs of higher education are 14 four-year public universities, two-year community colleges, and 17 private, undergraduate and graduate universities. In the state are two medical schools, University of Alabama at Birmingham and University of South Alabama, two veterinary colleges, Auburn University and Tuskegee University, a dental school, University of Alabama at Birmingham, an optometry college, University of Alabama at Birmingham, two pharmacy schools, Auburn University and Samford University, and five law schools, University of Alabama School of Law, Birmingham School of Law, Cumberland School of Law, Miles Law School, and the Thomas Goode Jones School of Law. Public, post-secondary education in Alabama is overseen by the Alabama Commission on Higher Education. Colleges and universities in Alabama offer degree programs from two-year associate degrees to 16 doctor level programs.

 The governor of Alabama is Bob Riley, a Republican. The lieutenant governor of Alabama is Jim Folsom Jr., a Democrat, and the Chief Justice of the Alabama Supreme Court is Sue Bell Cobb, a Democrat.

<TITLE>Achilles</TITLE>
Achilles was a hero in Greek mythology. He was an important person in the Trojan War, and in Homer's Iliad. Achilles was the son of Peleus and the nereid Thetis. He had a son named Neoptolemus with Deidamea.

 Achilles could not be hurt. In some versions of the myths, Thetis, his mother, dipped him into the river Styx, holding the baby by his heel. Because of that, his heel was still vulnerable. However, the Iliad does not say this.

In the Trojan War, Achilles was the best Greek warrior-hero. He killed Hector, but was killed by Paris, who shot his heel with a poisoned arrow. He was very angry. He cursed at Paris but Paris fled.

<TITLE>Abraham Lincoln</TITLE>
Abraham Lincoln was the 16th President of the United States. He served as president from 1861 to 1865, during the American Civil War. After many Confederate forces had already surrendered and the war was ending, John Wilkes Booth assassinated Lincoln. Booth was hoping to rally the remaining Confederate troops to keep fighting. Lincoln has been remembered as the "Great Emancipator" because he worked to end slavery in the United States.

 Abraham Lincoln was born on February 12, 1809, in Hardin County , Kentucky. His parents were Thomas Lincoln, a farmer, and Nancy Hanks. His family was poor. Abraham had one brother and one sister. His brother died in childhood. They grew up in a small log cabin house, with just one room inside. Although slavery was legal in Kentucky at that time, Lincoln's father, who was a religious Baptist, to own any slaves. When Lincoln was seven years old, his family moved to Indiana, and later to Illinois. In his childhood he helped his father on the farm, but when he was 22 years old he left home and moved to New Salem, Illinois, where he worked in a general store. Later, he said that he had gone to school for just one year, but that was enough to learn how to read, write, and do simple math. In 1842, he married Mary Todd Lincoln. They had four children, but three of them died when they were very young. Abraham Lincoln was sometimes called Abe Lincoln and nicknamed "Honest Abe", because he was fair and told the truth. He has also been called the "Great Emancipator" because of his work end slavery in the United States. In 1863, he declared that all slaves held in the rebellious Confederate States were free. He also sponsored the Thirteenth Amendment. Ratified in 1865, nine months after his assassination, that amendment completely outlaws slavery in the United States.

 Lincoln started his political career in 1832 when he ran for the Illinois General Assembly, but he lost the election. He served as captain in the army during the Black Hawk War, a war with Native American tribes. When he moved to Springfield in 1837, he began to work as a lawyer. Soon, he became one of the most highly respected lawyers in Illinois. In 1837, as a member of the Illinois General Assembly, Lincoln issued a written protest of its passage of a resolution stating that slavery could not be abolished in Washington, D.C. In 1841, he won a court case , representing a black woman who claimed she had already been freed and could not be sold as a slave. In 1847, he lost a case representing a slave owner claiming return of fugitive slaves.

In 1846, Lincoln joined the Whig Party and was elected to one term in the House of Representatives. After that, he ignored his political career and instead became a very good railroad lawyer. Twelve years later, he wanted to become senator; although this was unsuccessful, the debates drew national attention to him. The Republican Party nominated him for the Presidential election of 1860.

 Lincoln was chosen as a for the elections in 1860 for different reasons. Among these reasons were that his views on slavery were less extreme than those of other people who wanted to be candidates. Lincoln was from what was then one of the Western states, and had a bigger chance of winning the election there. Other candidates that were older or more than him had enemies inside the party. Lincoln's family was poor, which added to the Republican position of free labor, the opposite of slave labor. Lincoln won the election in 1860, and was made the 16th President of the United States. He won with almost no votes in the South. For the first time, a president had won the election because of the large support he got from the states in the North. 

 After Lincoln's election, seven States formed the Confederate States of America, which led to the American Civil War. Later, four more states joined the Confederacy for a total of eleven. In his whole period as President, he had to rebuild the Union with military force and many bloody battles. He also had to stop the "border states", like Kentucky, Missouri, and Maryland, from leaving the Union and joining the Confederacy.

Lincoln was not a general, and had only been in the army for a short time during the Black Hawk War. However, he still took a major role in the war, often spending days and days in the War Department. His plan was to cut off the South by surrounding it with ships, control the Mississippi River, and take Richmond, the Confederate capital. He often clashed with generals in the field, especially George B. McClellan, and fired generals who lost battles or weren't enough. Eventually, he made Ulysses S. Grant the top general in the army.

 With the Emancipation Proclamation on January 1, 1863, Lincoln ordered the freedom of all slaves in those states still in rebellion during the American Civil War. It did not actually immediately free all those slaves however, since those areas were still controlled by the rebelling states of the Confederacy. Only a small number of slaves already behind Union lines were immediately freed. As the Union army advanced, nearly all four million slaves were effectively freed. Some former slaves joined the Union army. The Proclamation also did not free slaves in the slave states that had remained loyal to the Union . Neither did it apply to areas where Union forces had already regained control. Until the Thirteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution in 1865, only the states had power to end slavery within their own borders, so Lincoln issued the proclamation as a war measure. 

The Proclamation made freeing the slaves a Union goal for the war, and put an end to movements in European nations that would have recognized the Confederacy as an independent nation. Lincoln then sponsored a constitutional amendment to free all slaves. The Thirteenth Amendment, making slavery illegal everywhere in the United States, was passed late in 1865, eight months after Lincoln was assassinated.

Lincoln made a famous speech after the Battle of Gettysburg in 1863 called the Gettysburg Address. The battle was very important, and many soldiers from both sides died. The speech was given when they built the cemetery for the dead soldiers. It is one of the most famous speeches in American history.

 Lincoln was reelected president in 1864. He proposed laws to make the nation become one again quickly. While attending a play at Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C., Lincoln was shot and killed by John Wilkes Booth. He was the first American president to be assassinated.

<TITLE>Aristotle</TITLE>
Aristotle was a Greek philosopher. He was one of the most important philosophers in the history of Western civilisation. It is said that Aristotle wrote around 150 philosophical books, but only a much smaller number survives. Aristotle was the boyhood tutor of Alexander the Great, who later sent him plants and animals from parts of his new empire. 

 Aristotle's father Nicomachus, was the doctor of King Amyntas of Macedonia. From his eighteenth to his thirty-seventh year, Aristotle lived in Athens, as a metic and student of Plato.

The three greatest ancient Greek philosophers were Aristotle, Plato, and Socrates. Socrates taught Plato, then Plato taught Aristotle. These three thinkers turned early Greek philosophy into the beginnings of Western philosophy as it is today. Aristotle taught Alexander the Great, who later conquered the entire Middle East.

Plato's main ideas were that knowledge from the senses was always confused and not pure. True knowledge can be gotten from the thinking soul that turns away from the world. Only the soul can have knowledge of "Forms", the real way things are. The world is only a copy of these "Forms" and is not perfect.

Aristotle thought differently. He thought that knowledge from the senses was more important. These thoughts became some of the roots of the scientific method after hundreds of years. Most of the things Aristotle wrote that we still have today are notes from his speaking and teaching. Some of his important writings are Physics, Metaphysics, Ethics, Politics, De Anima , and Poetics.

He also had problems with the atomic theory. He did not believe in Democritus' theories about the atomic theory. He believed that all matter was continuous whereas Democritus stated the all matter was made up of tiny indivisible things called "atoms". Democritus was proved right by physicist John Dalton in 1804.

 Aristotle also wrote about Logic. Aristotle is the father of logic. Logic is a type of thought that allows us to decide whether an idea is true or false. Still today, Aristotle's ideas on logic had the most influence across the wide world.

 The history of the work of Aristotle from the time he was born until the 1st century BC is not well known. Legends say that Aristotle's collection of writings was left to Theophrastus. Theophrastus was Aristotle's successor. Theophrastus hid the things Aristotle wrote to keep them from being taken away or destroyed. They were found again in the year 70 BC.

<TITLE>Academy Award</TITLE>
The Academy Awards, commonly known as the Oscars, are the best-known movie awards in the United States. The awards have been given by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences since 1929. Right now, the awards ceremony takes place in January at the Kodak Theater in Hollywood.

<TITLE>Ayn Rand</TITLE>
Ayn Rand was a Russian-born American writer, screenwriter, playwright and philosopher who published several popular books in the United States in the mid-1900s, such as We the Living, Anthem, Atlas Shrugged and The Fountainhead. Her husband was an American actor and artist, named Frank O'Connor.

 Rand grew up during the Russian Revolution, in the years after World War I. She left Russia to visit relatives in Chicago in the United States when she was 21 years old. She did not want to return to live under Communism, and stayed in the US. She changed her name partly to protect her family, back in Russia. Rand moved to California to become a movie writer. Movies at the time did not have sound, and stories were pantomime on camera. was not important, so Rand could write simple stories while she improved her English language skills.

Rand met her husband, Frank O'Connor, on a movie set, when they both appeared as s. When O'Connor married Rand, she could live permanently in America. She later became an American citizen. O'Connor gave up his acting career, to work full-time so Rand could write full-time. Later he retired, when Rand's work made a good income. He began painting late in his life.

Rand's first book was We the Living. It is about life in Russia during and after the revolution, and how life in the later Soviet Union destroys the dreams and hopes of its main characters, who are mostly young people.

Her second book was Anthem, which is a science fiction novella about a man named Equality 7-2521 who lives in the future, in a society where everybody is given their name by the government, and nobody can use the words "I" or "me". He escapes from this society with a partner, to live freely in a house in a hidden place.

Her stage play Woman on Trial used audience members as a jury, to decide the play's each time it was performed. Some celebrities, like Helen Keller, appeared as jury members.

Her third novel was The Fountainhead. It is about an architect, who wants to have control over his building designs, and does not like when he has to compromise his building designs. The Fountainhead became a bestseller, and was made into a movie starring Gary Cooper and Patricia Neal.

Her fourth novel was Atlas Shrugged. It is her longest book. It was also a best-seller. It tells a story about a worldwide economic crisis, caused by the best minds in business, industry, and science, and after a while all intellectual people, quitting their jobs and disappearing, to protest government regulations that get in the way of their work or make it harder. The more governments get in the way, the worse conditions become, until society collapses. A new future begins when the people who disappeared return, and governments adopt laissez-faire principles, that do not try to control how businesses work, or misuse s.

After Atlas Shrugged she wrote non-fiction books about her Objectivist ideas. She published The Objectivist Newsletter, which then became The Objectivist magazine, with s by other writers. She also published The Ayn Rand Letter, a later newsletter about her ideas.

Rand was a longtime tobacco , and it led to later health problems. She died in 1982 of cardiovascular disease .

 Rand invented a philosophy that she called Objectivism. She was against Communism, Socialism, and collectivism, which are political systems where a community or the government of a country takes charge of distribution of that country's goods and products.

She also thought that countries should have very small governments. Ayn Rand did not think that welfare payments to poor people were a good thing, because this involves using force to take money away from others. She believed that charity could be a good thing if the person giving the money wanted and chose to do it, but she did not think that people should be expected or forced to give away their money.

She was also against religion, and was an atheist .

<TITLE>Algeria</TITLE>
Algeria is a country in the Western part of North Africa. The capital city is Algiers.It is the second largest country on the African continent.

 Official languages are Arabic and Berber. French is widely spoken too. Algeria's population is about 35 million.

<TITLE>Anthropology</TITLE>
Anthropology is the study of human beings. . Anthropology is a biological and historical social science that helps us learn how groups of people are the same, and how they are different in all parts of the world. Anthropologists do research in many places and study how people live now and how they may have lived in the past . They research in modern cities, small villages, tribes, and in the countryside. They study how groups of people consider time, space, life, etc.

Applied anthropology is a type of anthropology that uses information discovered using science to help people. One recent use of applied anthropology is the return of ancient ways of successful farming to people living in South America. Another use of applied anthropology is the learning of languages close to dying out and the teaching of young people the language of their ancestors.

Most people who study anthropology have some schoolwork in all four big kinds of anthropology but later study one or two areas primarily.

<TITLE>Alchemy</TITLE>
Alchemy is a study of the basic elements called fire, water, earth and air. It is the study of transmutation. It was first studied to learn how to change lead into gold. It is similar to chemistry, but much older. People who studied alchemy were called alchemists.

Alchemists in the Middle Ages often tried to make gold using things that were not gold. They also tried to make the Elixir of Life . Many times alchemists would use stories and legends to try to veil how to make gold. The psychologist Carl Gustav Jung was interested in this as well but in relation to the soul of man. Alchemists are objective while psychologists are subjective . Alchemists deal with the First Matter while Psychology deals with the mind. A famous saying in Alchemy: "As above, so below" veils the relationship existing between Alchemy and Psychology. 

Alchemy is not a science any more. Some things that the alchemists learned about were important for other sciences, like chemistry.

In 1980, an American scientist named Glenn Seaborg actually changed a very tiny amount of bismuth into gold with a nuclear reactor. But it cost much more to transform the energy to do this than the tiny amount of gold was worth. This is the closest a scientist has come to discover the Philosopher's Stone of the ancient Alchemists. The Philosopher's Stone is the means Alchemists use to achieve transmutation. 

Alchemy was an important science because it helped create many other sciences that came after it, for example, Chemistry, Physics, Biology, and astronomy. Alchemists not only tried to create gold but they also looked for self-purification and enlightenment.

<TITLE>Austria</TITLE>
Austria , officially "Republic of Austria", is a country in Central Europe. Around Austria there are Germany, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Italy, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein. Currently, the chancellor is Werner Faymann. Austria has been a member-state of the EU since 1995.

The people in Austria speak German, a few also Hungarian, Slovenian and Croatian. The capital of Austria is Vienna . 

Austria is more than a thousand years old. Its history can be followed to the ninth century. At that time the first people moved to the land now known as Austria. The name "Ostarrichi" is first written in an official document from 996. Since then this word has developed into the Modern German word Österreich.

Austria is a democratic state and has nine federal states : Vorarlberg, the Tyrol, Salzburg, Carinthia, Styria, Upper Austria, Lower Austria, Vienna and Burgenland. It is a neutral state, that means it does not take part in wars with other countries. Austria is in the United Nations since 1955 and in the European Union since 1995.

 There has been human settlement in the area that is now Austria for a long time. The first settlers go back to the Paleolithic age. That was the time of the Neanderthals. They left works of art such as the Venus of Willendorf. In the Neolithic age people were living there to dig for mineral resources, especially copper. Ötzi, a mummy found in a glacier between Austria and Italy, is from that time. In the Bronze Age people built bigger settlements and fortresses, especially where there were mineral resources. Salt mining began near Hallstatt. At that time, Celts began to form the first states.

 The Romans settled in most of modern Austria. They built larger cities. The most important of these were Carnuntum , Virunum and Teurnia . 

 Austria was an empire from about 800 to 1918. And was ruled by The House of Habsburg for most of that period. Then it became a republic. The First Republic was from 1918 to 1938, the Second Republic has been from 1945. From 1938 to 1945 Austria was part of Germany.

Austria is a largely mountainous country since it is in the Alps. The high mountainous Alps in the west of Austria flatten somewhat into low lands and plains in the east of the country.

 Many famous composers were Austrians or born in Austria. There are Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Joseph Haydn, Franz Schubert, Anton Bruckner, Johann Strauss, Sr., Johann Strauss, Jr. and Gustav Mahler. In modern times there were Arnold Schoenberg, Anton Webern and Alban Berg, who belonged to the Second Viennese School .

Austria has many artists, there are Gustav Klimt, Oskar Kokoschka, Egon Schiele or Friedensreich Hundertwasser, Inge Morath or Otto Wagner and scienc.

 Famous Austrian dishes are Wiener Schnitzel, Apfelstrudel, Schweinsbraten, Kaiserschmarren, Knödel, Sachertorte and Tafelspitz.

<TITLE>Astronomer</TITLE>
An astronomer is a person who studies astronomy. Most astronomers work in observatories with telescopes to collect information from stars, planets, or galaxies. An astronomer has to analyse information s/he has collected, and to use it to help us understand how the universe behaves.

<TITLE>ASCII</TITLE>
ASCII is a binary code used by computers, communications equipment, and other devices to handle text using the English alphabet. ASCII is an abbreviation for American Standard Code for Information Interchange. 

ASCII was developed in the 1960s and was based on earlier codes used by telegraph systems.

ASCII includes definitions for 128 characters: most of these are the printable characters of the alphabet such as abc, ABC, 123, and ?&!. The rest of the characters within the code do not actually print but instead control how text is processed, for example line endings.

ASCII uses 7 binary digits to represent characters: 1000001 represents the upper-case letter A; 1000010 represents B; 1000011 represents C; and so on in sequence.

The name ASCII is often used for binary codes that use all values in a full byte . It is not really correct to call them ASCII, since ASCII is only the method described here above. Often they are called extended ASCII. Such binary codes can have definitions for 256 characters. The first 128 characters must be the same as for ASCII and the rest are usually used for alphabetic letters with accents, for example like É, È, Î and Ü. Such characters are needed to correctly write languages other than English, for example French, German and Swedish.

<TITLE>Animation</TITLE>
Animation is a way of making a movie from many still images. The images are put together one after another, and then played at a fast speed to give the illusion of movement. Most animations are played at a speed of twenty-four to sixty images per second. Each image becomes one frame of the movie. 

A person who makes animations is called an animator. 

 Because it is expensive to make, most animation comes from professional companies. However, independent animators have existed since the 1950s in America, with many of those people entering the professional industry. In Europe, the independent movement has existed since the 1910s, with animators like pre-revolutionary Russia's Ladislas Starevich and Germany's Lotte Reiniger.

On the internet, many people use a computer program called Flash to create animations. Flash uses a combination of drawing and computer graphics to make animations. Many animations on the internet are made in Flash. Most animators on the internet do not work for professional companies.

On television, limited animation is used a lot. It is used by popular companies such as UPA and Hanna-Barbera Productions. Simple, limited movement makes the images easier to draw, which lowers the cost of making animations and makes the production of animation faster.

<TITLE>Apollo</TITLE>
Apollon or Apollo is a god in Greek mythology, and one of the Twelve Olympians. He is the son of Zeus and Leto and the twin brother of Artemis.

He was the god of healing and medicine, and of music and poetry. He was the leader of the Muses. He also was a god of prophecy, and his Oracle at Delphi was very important. He also was a god of revenge and justice. During the 5th century BC, Apollo became also known as the god of the sun, becoming one with the god Helios, and getting the name Phoebus.

He is shown as a young man, wearing a laurel wreath and playing the kithara .

<TITLE>Andre Agassi</TITLE>
Andre Kirk Agassi is a retired professional tennis player from the United States. He is the only tennis player to have won all Grand Slam tournaments on four different surfaces. He is one of the most successful tennis players in history and was formerly ranked number 1 in the world. He is married to former women's number one tennis player Steffi Graf. 

<TITLE>Andorra</TITLE>
Andorra is a European country between Spain and France. There are about 70,000 people living in the country. The capital is Andorra la Vella. It is ruled by a Spanish Bishop and the French President. Andorra's government is a parliamentary democracy.

<TITLE>American Football Conference</TITLE>
The American Football Conference is one of the two conferences of the National Football League , the other being the National Football Conference . Every year, the winner of the AFC Championship Game receives the Lamar Hunt Trophy and gets to play against the winner of the NFC Championship Game in the Super Bowl. As of 2010, the Pittsburgh Steelers, who have won the AFC Championship Game seven times, have won the most AFC Championship Games.

<TITLE>Animal Farm</TITLE>
Animal Farm is a book by George Orwell. The story is a modern fable and allegory. The story is about a group of animals who throw out the humans from the farm they live on and run it themselves. What starts out well turns into a brutal tyranny on its own. It was written during World War II and published in 1945. The book was not widely successful until the late 1950s.

Animal Farm is a critique and satire of Soviet totalitarianism. Many events in the book are based on events from the Soviet Union during the Stalin era. Orwell was a critic of Stalin, and suspicious of Moscow-directed Stalinism after his experiences in the Spanish Civil War. 

 There are many characters in the book who are based on real people. They are grouped into pigs, horses, humans and other animals. 

 Animalism is a system of beliefs shared by the farm animals of Manor Farm. The purpose is to ensure the farm animals behave like actual animals and not follow the footsteps of humans beings. Therefore, any human behavior is considered contrary to the spirit of Animalism.

 In the story, this song was sung by animals of England once upon a time. It is named "Beasts of England", with a stirring tune, a cross between Clementine and Cucuracha. This song became popular among the animals of England after Old Major recited it to the farm animals of Manor Farm. It serves as the 1st national anthem of Animal Farm.

 These are the original commandments laid down by the pigs.

 "Four legs good, two legs bad."

<TITLE>Amphibian</TITLE>
Amphibians are a group of tetrapod animals. They form the class Amphibia . They live in shallow water and on land, and must lay their eggs in water. They have a larval stage in water, and the adult stage usually lives mostly on land. 

Early amphibia, from the Carboniferous, were quite large predators with flat skulls. The amphibia which survive today are much smaller, and more specialised, forms. Frogs, toads, newts, salamanders and caecilians are all amphibians. 

As amphibia grow from a larva to an adult, they change shape. This is metamorphosis. They lose their gills and tails, and grow front and hind legs. Larval frogs, toads, or salamanders are called tadpoles. Adult females lay as many as 1000 eggs, usually in the water or in wet places. They eat other animals, especially insects. Amphibians are cold blooded, wich means that their body temperature doesn't adapt to the weather.

There are about 5,700 living species of amphibians.

<TITLE>Alaska</TITLE>
The State of Alaska is one of the states of the United States. It is one of two states that does not touch another state. The other is Hawaii. It was purchased from Imperial Russia in 1867 for $7.2 million.

 The capital city is Juneau, but the biggest city is Anchorage. Alaska is the biggest state in the United States, but it almost has the least people. Alaska has almost 20% of all the land in the U.S., but only about 0.2% of the people. It is not connected to any other states by American land, but it is connected to Canada.

Alaska has many glaciers, some of which are passed by or landed on by cruises or National Parks. Some are coastal, and others are not by the ocean. It is a popular tourist destination, as there is a very rich culture along with beautiful scenery.

There are some important industries in Alaska, like oil, fishing, mining, and forestry. Oil is the biggest industry in Alaska. Most of the oil is very far north in the Alaskan arctic. A very long pipeline starts at the northern coast of Alaska and runs to the southern coast. It is over 800 miles long. There were many gold rushes in Alaska.

<TITLE>Aldous Huxley</TITLE>
Aldous Leonard Huxley was a British writer of the first half of the 20th century. He wrote a great number of books, on various themes. Most of his books are either highly philosophical, or they try to criticize modern science. Aldous Huxley is probably best known for his book Brave New World. In the book, which was written in 1932, he shows what can go wrong with genetic engineering. He writes about a world in the far future, where the whole social hierarchy is based on genetic traits, and not on the personal effort of the individual people to learn and improve themselves. Such a position is often called eugenics. 

<TITLE>Algae</TITLE>
Algae is the name for certain plant-like living things that can make food from sunlight . The study of algae is called phycology or algology.

 Algae are a large and diverse group of simple, typically autotrophic organisms, ranging from unicellular to multicellular forms. The largest and most complex marine forms are called seaweeds. They are photosynthetic, like plants, and "simple" because they lack the many distinct organs found in land plants. For that reason they are not classified as plants.

Though the prokaryotic Cyanobacteria were included as "Algae" in older textbooks, this is outdated. The term Algae is now used for eukaryotic organisms. All true algae therefore have a nucleus enclosed within a membrane and chloroplasts bound in one or more membranes. However, algae are definitely not a monophyletic group, as they do not all descend from a common algal ancestor. Modern taxonomists propose splitting them up into monophyletic groups, but there is at present no consensus as to the details.

Algae lack the various structures that characterize land plants, such as leaves, roots, and other organs that are found in plants. Nearly all algae have photosynthetic machinery ultimately derived from the cyanobacteria, and so produce oxygen as a by-product of photosynthesis, unlike other photosynthetic bacteria such as purple and green bacteria. Some unicellular species rely entirely on external energy sources and have limited or no photosynthetic apparatus.

Fossilized filamentous algae from the Vindhya basin have been dated back to 1.6 to 1.7 billion years ago.

 Algae are usually found in damp places or water, and are common on land as well as water. However, terrestrial algae are usually rather inconspicuous and are far more common in moist, tropical regions than dry ones. Algae lack vascular tissues and other adaptations to live on land, but they can endure dryness and other conditions in symbiosis with a fungus as lichen.

The various sorts of algae play significant roles in aquatic ecology. Microscopic forms that live suspended in the water column are called phytoplankton. They provide the food base for most marine food chains. Kelp grows mostly in shallow marine waters. Some are used as human food or harvested for agar or fertilizer. Kelp can grow in large stands called kelp forests. These forests prevent some of the damage from waves. Many different species live in them, including sea urchins, sea otters, and abalone. 

Some algae may harm other species. Some algae may reproduce a lot, and make an algal bloom. These algae may produce protective toxins which can kill fish in the water. Dinoflagellates secrete a compound that turns the flesh of fish into slime. The algae then consume this nutritious liquid.

Algae have evolved a number of symbiotic partnerships with other organisms. The most famous is the plant-like lichen, which are each formed by a fungus with an alga. It is a highly successful life-form, and twenty thousand 'species' are known. In all cases the lichen are quite different in appearance and life-style from either constituent; it is possibly the most complete symbiosis known. Both constituents gain from their access to niches with low nutrient value, which is where lichen are found.

Less well known are the algal relationships with animals. Reef-building corals are basically social Cnidarian polyps. Corals are dependent on light, because the algae are important partners, and they require light. Corals have evolved structures, often tree-like, which offer the algae maximum access to light. The coral weakens the algal cell walls, and digests about 80% of the food synthesised by the algae. The corals' waste-products provide nutrients for the algae so, as with lichen, both partners gain from the association. The algae are golden-brown flagellate algae, often of the genus Symbiodinium. A curious feature of the partnership is that the coral may eject the algae in hard times, and regain them later. The ejection of the algal partner is called bleaching, because the coral loses its colour.p200

Other types of Cnideria, such as sea anemones and jellyfish, also contain algae. Jellyfish with algae behave so that their partners get the best light during the day, and descend to depths at night, where the water is rich in nitrates and brown with decay. Sea slugs and clams are also well-known for harbouring algae. Both groups are molluscs. The sea slugs graze on coral, and are the same colour as the coral they graze. They are able to separate the algae from the polyp tissues they digest. The algal cells are moved to its tentacles, where they continue to live. The otherwise defenceless slug gains both camouflage and nutrition.p204 The giant clam keeps algae in its mantle, which is revealed when the clam is open. The coloured mantle has places where the skin is transparent, and acts like a lens to concentrate light on the algae beneath. When the algae get too numerous, the clam digests them.p203

Various other marine invertebrate groups have members which symbiont with algae. Flatworms and Polychaete worms are two such groups.

<TITLE>Alkane</TITLE>
Alkanes are chemical compounds, made of carbon and hydrogen. The simplest alkane is methane, which is made of one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms. Larger alkanes have two or more carbon atoms connected or bonded together. The carbon atoms of alkanes are joined together by single bonds. The Alkane's general formula is CnH2n+2.

<TITLE>Abacus</TITLE>
An abacus is a very old tool used for arithmetic. It is still used in some parts of the world. Sometimes blind people will use an abacus, because they can feel the numbers easily. The most common abacuses work by moving beads on rods.

Abacuses can do addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and people can use them to find the square root of whole numbers. Expert, or very good, abacus users can sometimes do math quicker than basic calculators. There is a common Chinese abacus. This abacus is split into two basic rows, one row for the "5"s, and the bottom row for the "ones". There are one or two beads in the top row, and four or five beads in the bottom one. For example, 8 is one bead on top and 3 below, because 5 + 3 = 8. Every column represents a different digit. 

<TITLE>Acid</TITLE>
An acid is something that has a pH less than 7.0 .

Sometimes, the abbreviation HA is used to mean an acid.

The chemistry definition of an acid is: "a substance that donates a hydrogen ion to another substance, which is called a base. " 

Acids can be commonly found in nature. Some of these include:

Acids can have different strengths, some are more reactive than others. More reactive acids are often more dangerous.

Acids can have a lot of different properties depending on their molecular structure. Most acids:

Acids can burn the skin. The burn can be serious or minor depending on the kind of acid and how concentrated it is. Burns like this can be a serious problem. Chemical burns like this need medical attention.

 Acids are important. Nucleic acids, such as DNA and RNA contain the genetic code. These molecules determine many characteristics of an organism, they are passed from the parents to offspring. DNA contains the plans how to build proteins which are made of amino acids. 

Fatty acids and fatty acid derivatives are another group of carboxylic acids that play a significant role in biology. These contain long chains of hydrocarbons and a carboxylic acid group on one end. The cell membrane of nearly all organisms is primarily made up of a phospholipid bilayer, a micelle of hydrophobic fatty acid chains with polar, hydrophilic phosphate "head" groups.

In humans and many other animals, hydrochloric acid is a part of the gastric acid secreted within the stomach. It can help hydrolyze proteins and polysaccharides. It can also convert the inactive pro-enzyme, pepsinogen into the enzyme, pepsin. Some organisms produce acids for defense; for example, ants produce formic acid.

<TITLE>Apollo 11</TITLE>
Apollo 11 was the first mission organised to send people to the moon. It was organised by NASA, the American space agency. It launched on July 16, 1969, carrying three astronauts Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins. On July 20 the same year Armstrong and Aldrin became the first humans to land on the moon successfully while Collins flew above them. 

The mission fulfilled the challenge John F. Kennedy had made in 1961 to "land a man on the moon, and return him safely to the Earth", before the 1960s ended.

 Millions of people around the world viewed the launch of Apollo 11 on television. The launch was a global event. Richard Nixon, who was then President, watched the launch from the White House. A Saturn V rocket launched the mission from the Kennedy Space Center in 1969. About two hours after leaving Earth the Lunar Command and Landing Modules separated from the main rocket. 3 days later the crew entered Lunar Orbit . A day later the Landing section or module separated from the command module. The Landing Module landed safely on the moon with Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin aboard. During the landing there were several problems with the mission computer and to avoid a crash Armstrong had to take manual control of the landing craft. They eventually landed with only 25 seconds of fuel left.

 The first thing Buzz Aldrin did upon touch down of the landing module was to pray. He did not reveal his intention to do this beforehand as someone had recently filed a lawsuit against NASA to stop astronauts from taking part in religious activity while in space. Armstrong became the first human to walk and speak on the moon's surface. The first words he said were - 

For the next two and a half hours Aldrin and Armstrong took notes, photographs and drilled core samples. The landings were broadcast to over six million people worldwide via giant radio receivers in Australia. They performed many scientific experiments including the collecting of Lunar rocks and dust. An American flag was set up and photographed on the moon. 

 After finishing their activity the two astronauts returned to the landing module and slept for seven hours before starting to leave. While preparing for take off Aldrin accidentally broke the circuit breaker in the ignition circuit. Armstrong used a felt tip pen to bridge the gap and prevent them from being stranded on the moon. Aldrin and Armstrong left many objects on the moon including an American flag, a few experiments and a plaque bearing a statement from the human race. The plaque read Here Men From The Planet Earth First Set Foot Upon the Moon, July 1969 A.D. We Came in Peace For All Mankind.

The plaque also held a disc containing messages from 73 leaders of countries around the world, the word hello spoken in almost every language known to man and a picture of two humans. On July 24 the astronauts returned to Earth and were immediately placed into quarantine. NASA scientists were afraid that they may have been exposed to unknown viruses or diseases while on the moon that could be dangerous to humans.

The three astronauts stayed in quarantine for three weeks. Upon their release they were treated as heroes around the world. They had dinner with President Nixon, a parade in Mexico City and another in Washington. The three also faced multiple television interviews and guest appearances.

<TITLE>Astronaut</TITLE>
An astronaut or cosmonaut is a person who goes into outer space. Countries friendly to the Soviet Union always said cosmonaut, countries friendly to the United States said astronaut.

Astronauts are also called "taikonauts" in China or "spationaute" in France. 

The first person to go into space was a Russian from the Soviet Union, his name was Yuri Gagarin. This happened on April 12, 1961.

The first and second persons to walk on the Moon were the Americans Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin. This happened on July 20, 1969. 

No astronauts have gone to the moon since 1972. No people have visited any other planets yet.

Astronauts still go into space on the Space Shuttle and the Soyuz spacecraft. Several countries have worked together to build an International Space Station so people can stay and work in space for long periods of time.

<TITLE>Alkali metal</TITLE>
Alkali metals are the chemical elements in group one of the periodic system. They are silver-coloured, soft and have only one electron in the outermost shell. They like to make reactions in which they give up this single electron and then have a charge of +1. They react strongly with water and because of this, they have to be stored in petrol. Alkali metals are the first group in the periodic table. They are never found in nature uncombined because they are unstable and they react fast to other elements. They bond well with all elements except the noble gases. Alkali metals have a balanced amount of protons and electrons. They have a few valence electrons. 

Alkali metals are: Lithium , Sodium , Potassium , Rubidium , Cesium , and Francium .

Sodium is the most important alkali metal. One of the most important salts of sodium is sodium chloride . It also forms a hydroxide, sodium hydroxide , which is commonly called 'caustic soda'. It is a very strong base. It is produced in the Nelson Cell or in the Mercury Cathode Cell by the electrolysis of aqueous NaCl.

<TITLE>Alphabet</TITLE>
An alphabet is a writing system, a list of symbols for writing. The basic symbols in an alphabet are called letters. In an alphabet, each letter is a symbol for a sound or related sounds. To make the alphabet work better, more signs assist the reader: punctuation marks, spaces, standard reading direction, and so on.

The name alphabet comes from Aleph and Beth, the first two letters in the Phoenician alphabet.

The alphabet in this article is the Roman alphabet . It was first used in Ancient Rome to write Latin. Today many languages also use the Latin alphabet: it is the most used alphabet today.

 It seems that the idea of an alphabet - a script based entirely upon sound - arose only once, and has been copied and adapted to suit many different languages. Although no alphabet fits its language perfectly, it is flexible enough to fit any language approximately. It was a unique invention.p12

 Our alphabet is called the Roman alphabet, as compared with the Cyrillic and other alphabets. All of these come from the ancient Greek alphabet, which dates back to about 1100 to 800BC.p167 The Greek alphabet was probably developed from the Phoenician script, which appeared somewhat earlier, and had some similar letter-shapes. 

The Phoenicians spoke a Semitic language, usually called Canaanite. The Semitic group of languages includes Arabic, Maltese, Hebrew and also Aramaic, the language spoken by Jesus. We don't know much about how the alphabetic idea arose, but the Phoenicians, a trading people, came up with letters which were adapted by the early Greeks to produce their alphabet. The one big difference is that the Phoenician script had no pure vowels. Arabic script has vowels which may, but do not have to be, shown by diacritics . The oldest Qu'ran manuscripts had no diacritics, and Israeli children to about the third grade use texts with vowel 'dots' added.p89 

No ancient script, alphabetic or not, had pure vowels before the Greeks. The Greek alphabet even has two vowels for 'e' and two for 'o', to distinguish between the long and short sounds. It is fairly clear from this that careful thought went into both the Phoenician invention and the Greek adaptation, but no details survive of either process.

Semitic scripts apparently derive from Proto-Sinaitic, a script of which only 31 inscriptions are known. It is thought by some researchers that the original source of this script was the Egyptian hieratic script, which by the late Middle Kingdom had added some alphabetic signs for representing the consonants of foreign names. Egyptian activity in Sinai was at its height at that time. A similar idea had been suggested many years previously.

 Other writing systems do not use symbols that mean a sound, but symbols that mean a word or a syllable. In the past such writing systems were used by many cultures, but today they are almost only used by languages people speak in Asia.

<TITLE>Atomic number</TITLE>
In chemistry and physics, the atomic number of an atom is the number of protons in the atom. The chemical elements of the periodic table are listed in order of atomic number. Atomic numbers are free.

<TITLE>Anatomy</TITLE>
Anatomy is the study of the bodies of living beings . It is like taking the body apart, and looking at its parts . People who study anatomy then look where a certain organ should be, or where it normally is.

The history of anatomy dates back to 1600 BCE when Egyptians began studying human anatomy. They discovered the functions of many organs like the liver, spleen, kidneys, heart etc. and were the first to discover the structure and functions of the lymphatic system.

Academic human anatomists are usually employed by universities, medical schools or teaching hospitals. They are often involved in teaching anatomy, and research into certain systems, organs, tissues or cells.

There are different systems, such as the cardiovascular system , the muscular system, and the nervous system .

<TITLE>Andrei Tarkovsky</TITLE>
Andrei Arsenyevich Tarkovsky was a Soviet film director, writer and opera director. Tarkovksy is listed as one of the 100 filmmakers best liked by film critics. He attained critical acclaim for directing such films as Andrei Rublev, Solaris and Stalker.

Tarkovsky also did a lot of work as a screenwriter, film editor and theater director.He is also important as a film theorist. He directed most of his films in the Soviet Union, with the exception of his last two films which were produced in Italy and Sweden. His films are characterized by Christian spirituality and metaphysical themes. Other things that are typical for his films are extremely long takes, the lack of conventional dramatic structure and plot, and memorable images of exceptional beauty.

Tarkovsky died of cancer, at age 54. 

<TITLE>Ambiguity</TITLE>
Ambiguity means something that can mean two different things. Such things are ambiguous. Sometimes the word is used to mean something that can mean several things or that is unclear. In the proper sense it should mean “two different meanings” because “ambi” comes from the Greek word for “two”.

Words or sentences that are ambiguous can lead to misunderstandings . This can sometimes be serious, but it can also be funny. Jokes often rely on ambiguity.

The British comedian Ronnie Barker said that he loved the English language because there are so many jokes you can make using ambiguity. He gave this example: 

A mother says to her little boy: “Johnny, go over the road and see how old Mrs Jones is”. The boy comes back and says to his mother: “Mrs Jones says it is none of my business”.

The mother meant “old” in a friendly way , but the sentence could also mean: find out Mrs Jones’s age. This is obviously how Johnny understood his mother's instruction.

The opposite of ambiguous is unambiguous .

<TITLE>Aardvark</TITLE>
The Aardvark is a mammal from Africa. Its name means "earth pig" in the language Afrikaans. 

The Aardvark is the only surviving member of the family Orycteropodidae and of the order Tubulidentata.

The Aardvark looks a bit like other animals, like the South American anteaters but they are not related.

 Adult aardvarks weighs about 50 Kilograms and a little more than one meter long.

 Aardvarks eat mostly ants and termites. They have a long sticky tongue which makes it easy to pick up many ants at once.

Aardvarks are nocturnal, which means they are awake at night and asleep during the day.

<TITLE>Adventure</TITLE>
An adventure is something exciting that happens to someone. An adventure can be a made-up story, or it can be something that happens in real life.

People often like to read stories about a person or a group of people who go off and have an adventure. There is often some danger in the story. Enid Blyton wrote stories about The Famous Five who go off to have exciting adventures. Harry Potter has lots of adventures: he meets strange people and gets into lots of dangerous situations.

People in real life like to have adventures. They may be explorers who like to go to far-away places where no one has ever been before.

Adventure sports are sports that are exciting but can be rather dangerous. Skydiving, gliding and rock climbing are adventure sports.

An adventure playground is a playground for children where they can climb, swing and jump on things. They have been made by adults for children to use and are normally quite safe.

An adventurer is someone who spends all his life going on adventures or doing things that are risky.

Space travel is an example of a modern adventure.

An adventure game is a video game about adventures.

The word venture is a short form of "adventure". A "business venture" is a business project in which there is a lot of risk. "Venture" can also be a verb: "They ventured out into the storm".

<TITLE>Asia</TITLE>
Asia is the largest continent on Earth, placed in the northern hemisphere. It is connected to Europe in the west. Together, Asia and Europe are called Eurasia.

Asia is surrounded by the Mediterranean Sea, the Black Sea, the Arctic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean, and the Indian Ocean. It is separated from Europe by the Caucasus Mountains and the Ural Mountains. 

Some of the oldest human civilizations began in Asia, such as Sumer, China, and India. China and India are also the two countries with the most people in the world.

A long, mainly land border in the west separates Europe and Asia. This boundary runs North-South down the Ural Mountains in Russia, along the Ural River to the Caspian Sea, and through the Caucuses Mountains to the Black Sea. About three-quarters of Russia lies in Asia, while the rest is in Europe. Small parts of four other Asian countries are in Europe. 

The Asian continent is the largest of all continents. Covering about 3/10 of the world's land area, it has more people than any other continent with about 3/5 of the world's total population. Stretching from the icy Arctic in the north to the hot and steamy equatorial lands in the south, Asia contains huge, empty deserts, as well as some of the world's highest mountains and longest rivers. 

<TITLE>Aruba</TITLE>
Aruba is an island in the Caribbean Sea, just a short distance north of the Venezuelan Paraguaná Peninsula, and it forms a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Unlike much of the Caribbean region, it has a dry climate and an arid, cactus-strewn landscape. This climate has helped tourism, however, as visitors to the island can reliably expect warm, sunny weather.

The island broke off from the Netherlands Antilles in 1986, hoping to gain its independence by 1996. In 1990, that effort stopped at the request of the island itself.

The island came into the news after high school senior Natalee Holloway disappeared on a high school graduation trip on May 30, 2005.

<TITLE>Articles of Confederation</TITLE>
Definition of Articles Of Confederation: The first written plan of government for the U.S. This lasted from 1776 to 1781. confederation: an association of states who cooperate for a common purpose. 

 Even though the Articles of Confederation and the Constitution were established by many of the same people, the two documents were very different. The original five-paged Articles contained thirteen articles, a conclusion, and a signatory section. The following list contains short summaries of each of the thirteen articles.

<TITLE>Atlantic Ocean</TITLE>
Scientists say that millions of years ago, there was only one ocean, and that most of the land in the world was joined together over where the Atlantic Ocean is now. Eventually, they think an enormous crack developed in the ground due to volcanic forces, and that the continents started ever so slowly drifting away from each other. The crack would have filled with water from rivers, and eventually the sea might have broken through from the north and the south. Even to this day, the east coast of the Americas is shaped somewhat like the west coast of Africa, but the difference is actually much greater than it might appear, so it is not really an exact fit or even a close one. The Atlantic Ocean is still growing now, because of sea-floor spreading from the mid-Atlantic Ridge, while the Pacific Ocean is said to be shrinking because the sea floor is folding under itself.

 The Atlantic Ocean has important ocean currents. One of these, called the Gulf Stream, flows across the North Atlantic. Water gets heated by the sun in the Caribbean Sea and then moves northwest toward the North Pole. This makes France, Ireland, Britain, Iceland, and Norway in Europe much warmer in winter than Newfoundland and Nova Scotia in Canada. Without the Gulf Stream, the climates of northeast Canada and northwest Europe might be the same, because these places are about the same distance from the North Pole.

There are currents in the South Atlantic too, but the shape of this sea means that it has less effect on South Africa.

<TITLE>Arthur Schopenhauer</TITLE>
Arthur Schopenhauer was a German philosopher. 

Schopenhauer believed that the primary characteristic, or essence of all things - including human beings - is not intelligence, rationality or spirit, but will. By 'will' he means a blind, amazingly powerful force that forces everything, from a rock to George Bush, into existence for no real reason, as it has no real reason itself for existing and because of this, there is immense amounts of suffering in the world. He also believed that a "better consciousness" could be attained by denying the fulfilment our desires, taking time to think about who we really are and what we should do to avoid suffering - but also, in doing something few philosophers of his day spoke of: in making and looking at works of art, especially music, which he considered one of the few justifications for human existence.

Schopenhauer was a huge influence on Richard Wagner, Friedrich Nietzsche, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Thomas Mann, Sigmund Freud, Leo Tolstoy, Carl Jung and many other important artists and thinkers of the 20th Century.

<TITLE>Angola</TITLE>
Angola is a country in Africa. The capital is Luanda. Angola is situated in the south of the continent.

<TITLE>Alberta</TITLE>
Alberta is a province in Canada. It lies in the western part of Canada. The province of British Columbia is west of Alberta. The province of Saskatchewan is east of Alberta. It is north of Montana, one of the states in the United States. 

Alberta is the fourth largest Canadian province. It has an area of 642,317 km². Alberta has 3,305,800 people. There are three provinces in Canada that have more people. 

The capital of Alberta is Edmonton. Edmonton is close to the middle of Alberta. Calgary is another city in Alberta. It is south of Edmonton. 

 Alberta has a lot of oil and natural gas. It is hard to find a job in Alberta because there is a lot of people there, because they all want the oil. There are also a lot of farms in Alberta. Farmers grow wheat and other things. There are also a lot of cows on Alberta farms, and Alberta beef is exported.

Some of Alberta gets a lot of snow in the winter. Alberta can be very cold in the winter. There is a part of Alberta in the south.

Alberta was made a province of Canada in 1905. 

<TITLE>Arctic Circle</TITLE>
The Arctic Circle is one of the five major circles of latitude that are often marked on maps of the Earth. This is the parallel of latitude that runs 66° 33' 39" north of the Equator.

The Arctic Circle is one way to say what part of the Earth is in the Arctic. The North Pole is in the center of the Arctic Circle.

<TITLE>Actinopterygii</TITLE>
The Actinopterygii is the class of ray-finned fishes.

The ray-finned fishes get their name from the fact that they have lepidotrichia or "fin rays". Their fins are webs of skin held by bony or horny spines . This is different from the fleshy fins of the fish in the Sarcopterygii. 

Actinopterygians are the largest class of vertebrates. There are nearly 25,000 species. They can be found in both fresh water and marine environments from the deep sea to the highest mountain streams. Most of the living species are teleosts.

<TITLE>Albert Einstein</TITLE>
Albert Einstein was a famous scientist. He received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921.

Einstein is famous for his theories about light, matter, gravity, space, and time, which helped scientists to understand these things much better than they had before. His theories include the theory of special relativity and the theory of general relativity. His most famous equation is . It means that energy and mass are different forms of the same thing, and that the amount of energy in a piece of mass is the same as the amount of the mass multiplied by the speed of light times itself .

Einstein was born at Ulm in Württemberg, Germany on March 14, 1879. His family was Jewish but was not very religious. Albert did not talk until he was about three, which is very unusual. When Albert was around four, his father gave him a magnetic compass. He was very interested in trying to understand how an invisible force could make the needle move and became interested in studying science and mathematics. This compass inspired him to explore the world. Albert went to a Roman Catholic school. He was not a good student, and many people thought him to not be very smart.

When he became older, he went to a school in Switzerland. After he graduated, he got a job in the patent office there. While he was working there, he wrote the papers that made him famous as a great scientist. Einstein had two heavily-disabled children with his first wife Mileva His daughter 'Lieseral' was born about a year before their marriage in January 1902. She spent her very short life in the care of Serbian grandparents where it is believed she died from Scarlet Fever. Some believe she may have been born with the disorder Down syndrome but it has never been proven. Her very existence only became known to the world in 1986 when a shoe-box was discovered by Einstein's grand-daughter in an attic in California containing 54 love letters exchanged between Mileva and Einstein from late 1897 to September 1903. Eduard Einstein was diagnosed at age 7 with a severe mental illness spending decades in hospitals, dying in the Zurich sanitorium in 1965. 

There is an indirect connection between brain size and the size of the neopallium especially important for the brain's higher functions. However, Einstein's brain weight was below-average and showed further signs of degeneration .

In 1917, Einstein became very sick with an illness that almost killed him. His cousin Elsa Lowenthal then nursed him back to health. After this, Einstein divorced Mileva, and married Elsa on June 2, 1919. 

Just before the start of World War I, he moved back to Germany, and became director of a school there. He lived in Berlin until the Nazi government came to power. The Nazis hated people who were Jewish or who came from Jewish families. They accused Einstein of helping to create "Jewish physics," and German physicists tried to prove that his theories were wrong. 

In 1933, under death threats from the Nazis and despised by the Nazi-controlled German Press, Einstein and Elsa moved to the United States to Princeton, New Jersey after feeling the heat of Nazi Germany and in 1940 he became a United States citizen.

During World War II, Einstein and Leó Szilárd wrote to the U.S. president Franklin D. Roosevelt, to say that the United States should invent an atomic bomb before the Nazi government could invent one first. He was not part of the Manhattan project, which was the project to create the atomic bomb. He was the only one that signed the letter.

Einstein died on April 18, 1955 of a burst aorta heart disease. He was still writing about quantum physics hours before he died.

 The theory of special relativity was published by Einstein in 1905 on a paper called "On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies". It states that both distance measurements and time measurements are altered near the speed of light. This means that as you get closer to the speed of 300,000 kilometres per second, lengths appear to shrink, and clocks tick more slowly. Einstein proposed that Special Relativity is based on two ideas. The first is that the laws of physics are the same for all observers that are not moving in relation to each other. All the people on a jet airplane would not be moving much in relation to each other, but the people in two different jet airplanes that come toward each other would be moving toward each other very fast. The people who are all going in the same direction at the same speed are said to be in an "inertial frame." The second idea is that the speed of light in a vacuum is always the same. A vacuum is a space without any matter in it. 

People who are in the same "frame" will measure how long something takes to happen in the same way. Their clocks will keep the same time. But people moving in another "frame" will look over at them and see that their clocks were moving at a different rate. The reason that this happens is actually quite simple. It is the consequence of two ideas. One idea we have seen already. No matter what you are doing, even if you are moving toward a distant star at half the speed of light, or if you are moving away from it at half the speed of light , if you measure the speed of the light coming from that star it will always be the same number. The other idea goes against our ordinary ideas. The other idea says that who is standing still and who is moving is whoever you say is standing still or moving. How can that be?

Imagine you were all alone in a different universe. That universe has no suns, planets, or anything else. It just has you and your spaceship. Are you moving? Are you standing still? Those questions do not mean anything. Why? Because when we say we are moving we mean that we can measure our distance from something else at one time and measure the distance at another time and the numbers will not be the same. If the numbers get bigger we are moving away. If the numbers get smaller we are moving closer. Suppose a sailor is standing on the edge of a very long boat with a flat top. Her boyfriend is standing on the dock. They are still very close together, so they shout to each other. The boat starts to leave. The sailor runs toward the back of the boat at the same speed that the boat moves forward so she and her boyfriend can keep talking. As far as her boyfriend is concerned, she is not moving. So to have movement you must have at least two things. We don't think about it because when we sit on the earth in a park, which is moving very fast around the sun, we think we are not moving because we do not get any closer or farther away from the trees in the park.

Now imagine that another spaceship appears in this other universe. On your spaceship you say that their spaceship is coming closer to yours. After all, you don't feel yourself moving. On their spaceship they say that your spaceship is coming closer to theirs. They don't feel themselves to be moving either. Somebody on an airplane can be moving at several hundred kilometers per hour, but they say, "I am just sitting here." 

Let us try to stretch our minds a bit. Imagine that a basketball player is on a glass airplane on the ground. People outside can see him very easily. He begins to walk from the back of the airplane toward the front of the airplane, bouncing his basketball as he goes. Maybe the distance between the places where his basketball hits the floor of the airplane is about one meter or one yard. If some people are under the airplane they can mark the place directly under the airplane where the ball hits the floor. Those marks are a meter or maybe a yard apart. So everybody agrees that the bounces are about a meter or a yard apart. Later the plane takes off. People still watch it from on the ground. But this time bounce number 5 is over a place in England and bounce number 6 is over a place in Scotland. The distance between bounces is measured in kilometers or miles on the ground, but the people on the plane get the same answers they did while the plane was on the ground.

Now suppose some people are on a big spaceship and they want to make a very accurate clock. So they make a long tunnel between decks from what would be like the top of an airplane to what would be the bottom of an airplane. At one end they put a mirror, and at the other end they put a simple machine. It shoots one short burst of light toward the mirror and then waits. The light hits the mirror and bounces back. When it hits a light detector on the machine, the machine says, "Count = 1," it simultaneously shoots another short burst of light toward the mirror, and when that light comes back the machine says, "Count = 2." Of course since light is very fast the count changes very fast. They decide that a certain number of bounces will be defined as a second, and they make the machine change the seconds counter every time it has detected that number of bounces. Every time it changes the seconds counter it also flashes a light out through a porthole under the machine. So somebody out taking a space walk will see the light flashing every second.

Every grade school child knows the formula d=rt . We know the speed of light, and we can easily measure the distance between the machine and the mirror and multiple that to give the distance the light travels. So we have both d and r, and we can easily calculate t. The people on the spaceship compare their new "light clock" with their various wrist watches and other clocks, and they are satisfied that they can measure time well using their new light clock.

Now this spaceship happens to be going very fast. It is not coming to earth to visit, but it does happen to fly over the north pole. There is a science station with a telescope at the north pole. They see a flash from the clock on the space ship, and then they see another flash. Only the flashes do not come a second apart. They come at a slower rate. The reason is that the situation is like the basketball player on the airplane. The ball is pushed downward by the player's hand. That is the light in the spaceship's machine firing off a burst toward the mirror. The ball hits the floor and bounces. That is like the light hitting the mirror and being reflected. The ball returns to the player's hand. That is like the light hitting the machine and triggering a new burst of light. Note that the distance between the place on the ground where the basketball is seen to hit the floor and the distance on the ground where the basketball is seen to return to the basketball player's hand is some great distance. Depending on how fast the plane is going, it might be a kilometer or even a mile away.

So the man on the north pole sees the light flash on the side of the spaceship when it is thousands of miles away, and then sees the next flash when the spaceship has gotten thousands of miles closer. The way the north pole man sees it, the light started out, let's say, 100,000 miles away and hit its return point when it was perhaps 90,000 miles away. So instead of just traveling twice the diameter of the space ship the light has traveled 10,000 miles. Light always goes at the same speed, d = rt, and so the time this trip took is going to be much greater --- as seen by the man on the north pole. That is why the clock on the spaceship is not flashing once a second for the earth observer. 

Special Relativity also relates energy with mass, in Albert Einstein's E=mc2 formula.

 E=mc2, also called the mass-energy equivalence, is one of the things that Einstein is most famous for. It is a famous equation in physics and math that relates mass to energy. The "E" in the equation stands for energy. Energy is a number which you give to objects depending on how much they change. It is a number given to all physical objects to describe how much potential the object has in order to change. There are three basic forms of energy: Potential Energy, Kinetic Energy, and Rest Energy. When energy moves from one form to another, the amount of energy always remains the same. It cannot be made or destroyed. This rule is called the "conservation law of energy". For example, when you throw a ball, the energy is transferred from your hand to the ball as you release it. But the energy that was in your hand, and now the energy that is in the ball is the same number. The "M" in the equation stands for mass. Mass is the amount of matter you have in your body. A lot of people think mass and weight is the same thing, but it is not. An object always has the same amount of mass, even if you were to go to the moon, while the weight of an object changes if you go to the moon. But the mass can change as it gets closer to the speed of light. The object becomes bigger. But mass and weight are also similar in some ways. Because a boulder weighs more than a pebble, it has more energy in it, and therefore has more mass. The c2 in the equation stands for the speed of light squared. To square something means to multiply it by itself, so if you were to square the speed of light, it would be 299,792,458 meters per second, times 299,792,458 meters per second. Einstein's equation, E=mc2, implies that an object with mass has energy in its mass, and objects with more mass have more energy. An example of this is a photon. A light photon has no mass, but its energy can act as its mass when it hits something. The equation also says that an object with mass cannot go faster than the speed of light.

 The General Theory of Relativity was published in 1915, ten years after the Special Theory of Relativity was created. According to the General Theory of Relativity, the gravitational attraction between masses results in the masses in space and time, meaning that every object is attracted to each other, and that results in space and time. Einstein's General Relativity also explained spacetime. Spacetime is the fact that we have a four dimensional universe, having three spatial dimensions, and one temporal dimension. All physical objects-us, the moon, the sun, the Milky Way, everything, is located inside these three dimensions. Also, mass causes the shape of spacetime to change, making it curved. All things follow these curves. Black holes are a major source of gravitational waves. A black hole is an object in the universe that has such a strong pull of gravity, that not even light can escape it. They are formed when giant stars, at least three times the size of our sun, dies. This is called a supernova. Also, general relativity explains gravitational lensing, which is where light bends when a massive object comes near it. This was proven during a solar eclipse, when the sun's bending of starlight from distant stars could be measured because of the darkness of the eclipse. General Relativity also set the stage for the theory of the formation of our universe. This theory is called the Big Bang. General Relativity explained singularities, which is what scientists think the universe formed from. This singularity was small, dense, and very hot. All of the matter that we know today came out of this point 15 billion years ago.

 Many scientists only care about their work, but Einstein also spoke and wrote often about politics and world peace. He liked the ideas of socialism and of having only one government for the whole world. He also worked for Zionism, the effort to try to create the new country of Israel.

Einstein's family was Jewish, but Einstein never practiced this religion seriously. He liked the ideas of the Jewish philosopher Baruch Spinoza and also thought that Buddhism was a good religion.

Even though Einstein thought of many ideas that helped scientists understand the world much better, he disagreed with many scientific theories that were developed later in his life. Many scientific theories discuss things that we cannot know for certain, but only as probabilities. Einstein did not like these kinds of theories; he thought that it should be possible to understand anything, if we had the correct theory. He once said, "I do not believe that God plays dice with the Universe."

Because Einstein helped science so much, his name is now used for several different things. A unit used in photochemistry was named for him. It is equal to Avogadro's number multiplied by the energy of one photon of light. The chemical element Einsteinium is named after the scientist as well. In slang, we sometimes call a very smart person an "Einstein."

One of his inspiring sayings is "There are two ways to live your life, one is as though nothing is a miracle, the other is as though everything is a miracle."

There is still a strong criticism of Einstein. Ronald William Clark says that Einstein hated Germany and the Germans since his youth. G.O.Mueller wrote a whole encyclopedia refuting Einstein's relativity. G.O.Mueller, Aristotle, Kant, Leibniz say space and time are categories of perception, not distortable "things", and not joined together.The speed of light could be higher. Paul Dirac and others thought that constants can change over time, too . G.O.Mueller lists about 4000 Einstein-critical works since 1905, rallying worldwide for rethinking relativity.

<TITLE>Afghanistan</TITLE>
Afghanistan is a country located in South-Central Asia. It is bordered by Iran in the west, Pakistan in the south and east, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan in the north, and China in the northeast.

Islam is the main religion. Pashto and Persian are the main and formal languages. The population of Afghanistan is divided into many ethnic groups of which Pashtun, Tajik, Hazara, Uzbek and Baloch. Although the name Afghan refers to Pashtuns only, under the constitution of Afghanistan, the word Afghan applies to every citizen of Afghanistan. The name Afghanistan means the "Land of Afghans".

1.Pashtun 56%

2. Tajik 27%

3. Hazara 6%

4. Uzbek 6%

5. Aimak 2%

6. Turmkmen 1%

7. Baloch 1%

8. Others 1%

 Afghanistan is in the path of important trade routes connecting southern and eastern Asia to Europe and the Middle East. Because of this, many empire builders have conquered the area. Signs that these conquerors were in the area can still be found in many parts of the country. 

The modern country of Afghanistan was established in 1747. In 1919, the king of Afghanistan declared independence for the state under the new name Afghanistan. The history of the land does not begin in 1747. Aryan tribes settled in the area around 4000 years ago and called their land Airiana vaejo means the "Land of Aryans". This name was mentioned in the Avesta, the old book of their religion, Zoroastrianism. The old Greek writers heard the word and called the land of these Aryan settlers Ariana. 

By the middle of the sixth century BC, the Persians who were also Aryans included the area within its boundaries and created Persian Empire. Alexander the great conquered Persian Empire by fighting in 330 BC. After him Kushans, Parthians and Sassanians took over.

Other people took the region by fighting like the Arabs , Turks and Mongols . The area which is now known as Afghanistan was then called Khorasan and it was a prosperous and important province of Persia, as it was the seat of most rulers. 

In the 18th century, Khorasan was controlled between the Safavids of Persia and Moghul rulers of India . They were cruel to Afghans who were living in the south eastern parts of Khorasan. Afghans then revolted and separated Khorasan from Persia and Mughal Empire of India in 1747. 

The country served as a buffer between the British and Russian empires until it won independence from British control in 1919.

 In 1979, the Soviet Union attacked and occupied Afghanistan. The occupation led to the killings of at least 600,000 to 2 million Afghan civilians, and made many people become refugees. United States supported an Afghan Islamic uprising, called the Mujahideen against Soviet occupation. After the Soviets left Afghanistan in 1989, a series of civil wars continued.

In 1996, a hardline movement called the Taliban took over Afghanistan. The Taliban had emerged in 1994, and were sponsored by Pakistan. During the Taliban's rule, much of the Afghans experienced restrictions on their freedom and violations of their human rights. The civil wars and Taliban rule left Afghanistan in ruins.

Following the September 11 attacks, the United States overthrew the Taliban government for refusing to hand over Osama bin Laden and several al-Qaida members who were also behind these attacks. 

In December 2004, Hamid Karzai became the first democratically elected president of Afghanistan.

<TITLE>Albania</TITLE>
Albania is a country in Southeastern Europe. The capital is Tirana. Over 3.6 million people live in Albania. 

Albania is next to Kosovo, Montenegro, Greece and Macedonia. It has a coast on the Adriatic Sea in the west, and a coast on the Ionian Sea in the southwest.

The official language is Albanian. 

The national anthem is Hymni i Flamurit.

 There are 36 districts in Albania. The districts are:

<TITLE>Allah</TITLE>
The word Allah is the Arabic term for God, or in other words, the Arabic God. In Islam, Allah is the main word for God. Muslims use 99 Names of God to describe God, but Allah is the most common of these and means all of them. When a Muslim says Allah, all of the other names of God are thought of as part of it. Muslims also believe that this word tells about God's being a single entity and as being without wrong or defect and of God having no partner. 

In Arabic, the name is composed of four letters, ا ل ل ه which when brought together make الله. Most Arab Christians believe that Allah is made up of three devine beings; the Father, Son and Spirit, that together they make up God.

"Allah" is often used by Muslims, when they're praying. Muslims have a faith in one God, one person who made everything, one judge and only one person who has power over all things.

<TITLE>Azerbaijan</TITLE>
Azerbaijan , or Republic of Azerbaijan, is a country in South Caucasus region of Eurasia. It is next to Russia in the north, Georgia, Armenia, in the west, Iran in the south, and Caspian Sea on the east. Azerbaijan also includes Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic, anenclave, which is next to Armenia to the north and east, Iran to the south and west, and Turkey to the northwest.

Most of Azerbaijan's land is located in Western Asia and is called an Asian country by the United Nations. However, because it is close and it's history is related to Europe, Azerbaijan is also a member of a number of European groups, including the Council of Europe since 2001.

<TITLE>Aikido</TITLE>
Aikido is a Japanese martial art developed by the man Morihei Ueshiba in the 20th century. The word Aikido means "the way of joining with life energy". Aikido is a martial art for self-defense by using the attacker's own strength against him and not opposing him with physical strength.

<TITLE>Art</TITLE>
The word art is used to describe some activities or creations of human beings that have importance to the human mind, regarding an attraction to the human senses. Therefore, art is made when a human expresses himself or herself. Some art is useful in a practical sense, such as a sculptured clay bowl that one can put things in. Many people disagree on how to define art. Many people say people are driven to make art due to their inner creativity. Art includes drawing, painting, sculpting, photography, performance art, dance, music, poetry, prose and theatre.

 Some people say that art is a product or item that is made with the intention of stimulating the human senses as well as the human mind or spirit.

An artwork is normally judged by how much impact it has on people, the amount of people who can relate to it, and how much people appreciate it. 

The first and broadest sense of "art" means "arrangement" or "to arrange." In this sense, art is created when someone arranges things found in the world into a new or different design or form; or when someone arranges colors next to each other in a painting to make an image or just to make a pretty or interesting design.

Art can also be a form of expression of emotion. The artist may feel a certain emotion and feels there is no other way to express it than to create something that mean something to them. Most of the art created in this case is made for the artist rather than an audience. Though if an audience is able to connect with the emotion as well, then the art work will become publicly successful.

All of the great ancient civilizations, such as Ancient Egypt, India, China, Greece, Rome or Arabia had works and styles of art. In the Middle Ages, most of the art in Europe showed Biblical stories in paintings, stained glass windows, and mosaic tile floors and walls.

Islamic art includes geometric patterns, Islamic calligraphy, and architecture. In India and Tibet, painted sculptures, dance, and religious painting were done. In China, arts included jade carving, bronzework, pottery, poetry, calligraphy, music, painting, drama, and fiction. There are many Chinese artistic styles, which are usually named after the ruling dynasty. 

In Europe, after the Middle Ages, there was a "Renaissance" which means "rebirth". People rediscovered science and artists were allowed to paint subjects other than religious subjects. People like Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci still painted religious pictures, but they also now could paint mythological pictures too. These artists also invented linear perspective where things in the distance look smaller than things close up in the picture. This was new because in the Middle Ages people would paint all the figures close up and just overlapping each other. 

In the late 1800s, artists in Europe, responding to Modernity created many new painting styles such as Classicism, Romanticism, Realism, and Impressionism. The history of twentieth century art includes Expressionism, Fauvism, Cubism, Dadaism, and Surrealism, and Minimalism.

In some societies, people think that art belongs to the person who made it, such as Indigenous Aboriginal Australian Art. They think that the artist put his or her "talent" into the art. In this view, the art is the property of the artist. 

In other societies, people think that art belongs to no one. They think that society has put its social capital into the artist and the artist's work. In this view, society is a collective that has made the art, through the artist.

<TITLE>Abortion</TITLE>
In mammals, an abortion is when a pregnancy ends early without the birth of offspring. Abortions can occur spontaneously, usually because something went wrong with the pregnancy. When this happens, it is called a miscarriage. Humans can also end the pregnancy on purpose before birth takes place. This is called an induced abortion.

 A developing human takes about thirty-eight weeks to grow and be born. Normally, this occurs about forty weeks after the mother's last menstrual period. This developing human is called embryo for the first eight weeks of the pregnancy, and fetus for the remaining thirty-two.

 There are two kinds of abortion. Sometimes, things go wrong during a pregnancy. These things may lead to the death of the embryo or fetus. Depending on what time in pregnancy they happen in, such abortions are called miscarriage or stillbirth.

In some cases finishing the pregnancy might be very dangerous for the pregnant woman. Giving birth might also be very difficult for her, she may have many worries, or she might not want to have a baby at all. In such cases, things can be done to end the pregnancy on purpose. This is called an induced abortion. 

In both types of abortion, the embryo or fetus usually comes out of the womb. This is called a complete abortion. In some cases, the embryo or fetus remains inside the womb. This is called a missed abortion. Surgery is needed to remove the embryo or fetus from the womb so the woman doesn't get an infection.

 People speak of spontaneous abortion or miscarriage when the embryo or fetus is lost due to natural causes before the 20th week of pregnancy. A pregnancy that ends this way, but that is between 20 and 37 weeks old is known as "premature birth" if the baby is born alive. If the fetus dies in the womb after 20 weeks, or while it is born, this is known as "stillbirth". Premature births and stillbirths are generally not considered to be miscarriages.

 Spontaneous abortions are common. About fifteen percent of pregnancies end in spontaneous abortion. In many cases, the woman is not even aware she was pregnant. The pregnancy is only a few days or weeks old and the woman believes the miscarriage is just her menses. About twenty-five percent of all women will have a spontaneous abortion during their lives.

Most miscarriages occur very early. Between ten and fifty percent of pregnancies end with a miscarriage, where the mother or the doctors are aware of it. These figures depend on the age and health of the pregnant woman. Most spontaneous abortions occur so early in the pregnancy that the woman is not even aware that she was pregnant. One particular study showed a rate of pregnancy in exposed ovulatory cycles of 59.6%; with 61.9% of conceptuses lost before twelve weeks. 91.7% of these occuried subclinically, without the knowledge of the mother.

The risk of spontaneous abortion decreases sharply after the 10th week of pregnancy, with a loss rate between 8.5 weeks LMP and birth of about two percent; pregnancy loss is “virtually complete by the end of the embryonic period."

 Those people who have already had several spontaneous or induced abortions run a greater risk of having a spontaneous one. Those with certain diseases, and those over the age 35 also run a greater risk. Other causes for abortions can be the infection of either the woman or embryo/fetus, or their immune response. Certain diseases or an accidental trauma can also cause a spontaneous abortion. Putting the woman under trauma or stress to cause miscarriage is considered induced abortion. Some countries call this feticide.

 Most miscarriages are due to problems with the copying of chromosomes, but some are caused by environmental factors. When a human is conceived, it gets 23 chromosomes from its mother and 23 from its father. If it does not get the right number its development happens wrong It may have many bad birth defects.

Most embryos and fetuses with chromosome problems will not live for a long time. They die very early. There are a few chromosome problems that babies can sometimes be born with. For example, Down Syndrome happens when there are three copies of chromosome #21. This is called trisomy 21 

 The most common symptom is bleeding from the vagina. This can be very little blood It can be very much blood Some women have bad pains in their low abdomen when they have a miscarriage. This is sometimes like the pain of menses. It can be much worse. Or a woman may have no pain at all. If the pregnancy is many weeks old, the woman may see the embryo or fetus when it comes out. But if it is less than 12 weeks old a woman may not see anything but blood.

 Sometimes no treatment is needed. Sometimes doctors do a surgical abortion. This is the same kind of surgery that is done for induced abortions. Sometimes doctors give women medicines to help the miscarriage finish without needing surgery.

 An induced abortion is when things are done to end the pregnancy on purpose. These things should usually be done by doctors. In countries where abortion can be done legally, it is often done by specialists who know a lot about women's bodies. Abortions done illegally are often performed by people without this special knowledge. This makes them more dangerous. Such abortions are usually called unsafe abortions, mainly because the risk to the health of the mother is much higher than with abortions carried out by skilled doctors.

 There can be medical reasons, why an abortion is performed. These include:

 Surgical induced abortions are where the embryo or fetus is taken out by a physical act. The kind of surgical abortion done depends on how long the pregnancy has gone on. It is easier in earlier stages of the pregnancy. There are less problems that can occur. So it is best to do a surgical abortion as early as possible.

Medical abortions are where a doctor gives a woman a medicine to end the pregnancy. There are two medicines used for this. The medicines are mifepristone and methotrexate. These two medicines both stop the pregnancy. Then the abortion happens like a spontaneous abortion.

 A pregnancy that ends without a child being born also may cause some problems to the woman this happens to. There are two broad groups of things that can happen:

 Abortion is safer than childbirth, if it is done before the 16th week of pregnancy and a professional does the abortion. Certain methods of abortion are pretty safe, and complications are rare. Generally, stopping a pregnancy that has gone on longer is riskier.

Women typically feel a small amount of pain during first-trimester abortion procedures. In a 1979 study of 2,299 patients, 97% reported experiencing some degree of pain. Patients rated the pain as being less than earache or toothache, but more than headache or backache.

Local and general anesthesias are used during the procedure.

 Few studies have been done to see if an abortion affects the woman psychologically, or mentally. Those that have been done give contradictory results. One study looked at 13.000 women who had become pregnant even though they did not want to. The study found that having an induced abortion does not increase the risk of getting mental health problems; the group that was compared were women who also did not want to have a baby, but who did not have an abortion. Other studies showed similar results: women who had an abortion did better in school or at work after the abortion. Another study showed that women who had an abortion had a higher self-esteem and felt better than those who did not.

Many women who had an abortion felt better afterwards, they also felt relieved. They would do it again in a similar situation.

A study done in New Zealand in 2006 showed that many women who had an abortion develeoped severe depressions up to 4 years after they had the abortion. They were also more likely have problems with alcohol and illegal drugs than those women who did not have an abortion. The person who oversaw the study later told media that given these results it would be very hard to say that having an abortion has no psychological effects on the womam who has is. He called the abortion "a traumatic experience".

 Both spontaneous and induced abortions have some risk for the woman.

If a bad thing happens because of a surgery or medicine that a doctor gives, or because of a miscarriage, it is called a complication. Complications of abortions can be infection, bleeding, pain. There may or may not be problems getting pregnant again; this is still being researched. In places where induced abortions are legal less than 1% of induced abortions have a bad complication. If doctors do induced abortions, the risk to the woman is less than the risk of complications of childbirth . In places where induced abortions are legal, less women have complications of induced abortion than in places where induced abortion is illegal. This is because induced abortions that are not done by doctors have much more risks. For example, after induced abortions became legal in the United Stated in 1973, less women died from having abortions. In the United States in 2000, 11 women died from the complications of legal abortion. The risk of death from a legal abortion is 1/100 of the risk of an appendectomy. The risk of death from an injection of penicillin is bigger than the risk of death from a legal abortion.

There can be emotional problems for the woman after a spontaneous or induced abortion. She may feel sad, angry, or guilty that she had a miscarriage or asked for an abortion. She may think she has done something that made the miscarriage happen, or that having an abortion was the wrong thing to do, and because of this she may feel intense grief. There are many places where women can get help dealing with these feelings.

Some women who have induced abortions may get criticism from friends or family who have different beliefs. When scientists look at this in research studies, however, they do not usually see that women have emotional problems after induced abortions. In 1987, President Ronald Reagan told the Surgeon General of the US to look at this question. Both president Reagan and the Surgeon General C. Everett Koop did not think abortion was right. Dr Koop looked at 250 papers that scientists wrote in scientific journals. Dr Koop said that the science we know does not show that induced abortions cause emotional problems for women who have them.

 The number of induced abortions done are different for different parts of the world. This is also true for the reasons why women decide to have an abortion. Estimates are that about 46 million induced abortions are done worldwide, every year. 26 million of them occur in places where abortion is legal, 20 million happen in countries where it is illegal to have an abortion. Some countries, like Belgium and the Netherlands have a low rate of induced abortion. Others, like Russia and Vietnam have a comparatively high rate. Overall, there are 26 induced abortions per 100 known pregnancies.

Abortion rates vary. The length the pregnancy has gone on, and the method used to do the abortion influence these rates. According to data collected in the United States, 88.2% of abortions were done in the first twelve weeks of pregnancy, 10.4% between week 13 and week 20 of the pregnancy. The remaining 1.4% were done in week 21 or later. 

90.9% were done by curettage, 7.7% were medical abortions , 0.4% by "intrauterine instillation" , and 1.0% by "other" . The Guttmacher Institute estimated there were 2,200 intact dilation and extraction procedures in the U.S. during 2000 - 0.17% of the total number of abortions performed that year. Similarly, in England and Wales in 2006, 89% of terminations occurred at or under 12 weeks, 9% between 13 and 19 weeks, and 1.5% at or over 20 weeks. 64% of those reported were by vacuum aspiration, 6% by D&E, and 30% were medical. Later abortions are more common in China, India, and other developing countries than in developed countries.

In 1998, a study was done in 27 countries. This study wanted to find the reasons, why women wanted to end their pregnancy. It found that women often gave one of the following reasons:

A different study, done in the United States in 2004 came to similar conclusions. 

Women who had an abortion in Finland and the United States usually did not state that the pregnancy posed a risk to their health. In Bangladesh, India and Kenya, however, more such women thought the pregnancy was a risk to their health. 1% of women in the 2004 survey-based U.S. study became pregnant as a result of rape and 0.5% as a result of incest. Another American study in 2002 concluded that 54% of women who had an abortion were using a form of contraception at the time of becoming pregnant. Inconsistent use was reported by 49% of those using condoms and 76% of those using the combined oral contraceptive pill; 42% of those using condoms reported failure through slipping or breakage. The Guttmacher Institute estimated that "most abortions in the United States are obtained by minority women" because minority women "have much higher rates of unintended pregnancy."

Some women have an abortion because the society they live in pressures them to. 

Any of these factors might force a pregnant woman to have an abortion.

Induced abortion is not legal in every place. In some countries, a doctor who does an induced abortion is committing a crime. In the United States, Canada, and many countries in Europe abortion is legal . In some countries like Ireland and Somalia it is legal only to save the life of the woman. If a woman is raped in Ireland and becomes pregnant, she cannot get an induced abortion. In some countries like Chile and El Salvador, abortion is never legal, including in cases where the woman risks dying from continuing the pregnancy.

In countries where induced abortion is not legal many more women die from abortion. Women still get induced abortions, but they cannot get them in safe hospitals and clinics. These induced abortions have more complications than abortions done by doctors.

Women who live in places where abortion is illegal, or heavily frowned upon sometimes travel to other places where an abortion can be done legally, so they can have an abortion. This is a form of medical tourism.

 Spontaneous abortion occurs in various mammals. In sheep, it may be caused by crowding through doors, or by being chased by dogs. In cows, abortion may be caused by contagious diseases, such as Brucellosis or Campylobacter. This can often be controlled by vaccination, though. 

Abortion may also be induced in animals, in the context of animal husbandry. For example, abortion may be induced in mares that have been mated improperly, or that have been purchased by owners who did not realize the mares were pregnant, or that are pregnant with twin foals.

Feticide can occur in horses and zebras. Usually this is done because males harass pregnant mares or force copulation. Scientists have raised the question, how often this occurs in the wild, though. Male Gray langur monkeys may attack females following male takeover, causing miscarriage.

 Induced abortion is a subject that is controversial. Each person has a system of moral values. Based on their system of morals, people have different opinions about it. Religion can also influence this opinion. A number of opinion polls have been carried out around the world. They have tried to find out what people think about abortion. Results were different for different countries, but also varied with the questions that were asked. 

In May 2005, a survey was done in ten European countries. The people were asked, if they could agree with the statement: "If a woman doesn't want children, she should be allowed to have an abortion". The highest level of approval was 81% in the Czech Republic; the lowest was 47% in Poland.

A poll was done in November 2001. The poll asked people in Canada in what circumstances they believed an abortion should be permitted. 32% responded that they believe abortion should be legal in all circumstances, 52% that it should be legal in certain circumstances, and 14% that it should never be legal. A similar poll in April 2009 surveyed people in the United States about abortion; 18% said that abortion should be "legal in all cases", 28% said that abortion should be "legal in most cases", 28% said abortion should be "illegal in most cases" and 16% said abortion should be "illegal in all cases". A November 2005 poll in Mexico found that 73.4% think abortion should not be legalized while 11.2% think it should.

Of attitudes in South America, a December 2003 survey found that 30% of Argentines thought that abortion should be allowed in Agentina "regardless of situation", 47% that it should be allowed "under some circumstances", and 23% that it should not be allowed "regardless of situation". A March 2007 poll about abortion in Brazil found that 65% of Brazilians believe that it "should not be modified", 16% that it should be expanded "to allow abortion in other cases", 10% that abortion should be "decriminalized", and 5% were "not sure". A July 2005 poll in Colombia found that 65.6% said they thought that abortion should remain illegal, 26.9% that it should be made legal, and 7.5% that they were unsure.

 Some people feel very strongly about abortion. People who think that abortion is wrong and that the law should not allow it are called pro-life. People who think think the law should let women choose to have abortions are called pro-choice. 

People who are pro-life believe that all humans, including embryos and fetuses, have a right to life. For this reason, they believe abortion is wrong, sometimes comparing it to murder. They think the law should make abortion a crime in order to protect embryos and fetuses. However, though pro-life people think abortion is wrong, there are special cases in which they will sometimes support allowing an abortion to happen, like if the pregnancy puts the woman's life at risk or if she got pregnant from rape. Pro-life people think women who are pregnant and do not want to raise a child should give the baby up for adoption instead of having an abortion. They have started advocacy groups, like the American Life League, to try to convince more people to think abortion is wrong and to try to get governments to make laws to restrict abortion. Sometimes, people who are against abortion have used violence to try to stop abortions from happening, like bombing the clinics that do abortions or shooting the people who work inside them. However, most people who are against abortion do not do such things and believe that they are wrong, and so they try to stop abortions from happening through peaceful activism.

People who are pro-choice believe that women should be allowed to have control over their own bodies when it comes to ending or continuing a pregnancy. They believe that, because the embryo or fetus is inside the woman's body and does not have developed enough organs to survive on its own until later in the pregnancy, it is not yet a person with rights. Pro-choice people also make the argument that abortion needs to be legal in order to protect women, because when abortion is illegal, it doesn't completely stop abortions from happening, but makes it so that women try to do abortions on themselves or get them done by people who are not trained doctors, which puts those women in danger of death or injury. Pro-choice people believe the way to prevent abortion is to make sure women only get pregnant when they want to. In addition to advocating the legality of abortion, pro-choice groups like Planned Parenthood often try to improve people's access to things used to prevent pregnancy , and try to teach young people about sex to reduce the number of teen pregnancies.

 Many religions have a view on abortion. These views span a broad spectrum from acceptance to rejection. Most religions generally oppose abortion. 

 Generally, when there is a debate about whether abortion laws should be changed in a country, there are advocacy groups. Some of the arguments these groups often have are outlined below.

 There is a hypothesis that induced abortion raises the risk of getting breast cancer. People who support this, call it a link, rather than a hypothesis. The subject has been controversial, but currently, scientists agree that there is no link between abortion in the first trimester, and increasing the risk to get breast cancer.

In early pregnancy, levels of estrogen increase. This causes the breast to grow, and to prepare for lactation. In the 1890s, studies were done on rats, before this hypothesis was put forward.

 It is currently unclear from what moment the embryo or fetus can feel pain. This is also used in the debate about abortion. Many researchers think that a fetus is unlikely to feel pain until after the seventh month of pregnancy. Others disagree. At about twenty-six weeks of pregnancy, certain connections are made in the thalamus of the growing fetus. Developmental neurobiologists suspect that these connections may be critical to perception of pain by the fetus. However, legislation has been proposed by pro-life advocates requiring abortion providers to tell a woman that the embryo or fetus may feel pain during an abortion procedure. 

Researchers from the University of California, San Francisco published a study in the Journal of the American Medical Association. The study analyzed data from dozens of medical reports and other studies. The researchers concluded that fetuses are unlikely to feel pain until the third trimester of pregnancy. However a number of medical critics have since disputed these conclusions. There are certain connections in the thalamus of the fetuse. These connections develop at about twenty-six weeks of pregnancy. At the end of the 20th century there was an emerging consensus among developmental neurobiologists that these connections are very important when it comes to the perception of pain in the fetus. Other researchers such as Anand and Fisk have challenged this late date, positing that pain can be felt around twenty weeks. Pain can have many different aspects: It might be purely relying on sensory input, but it might also involve emotions and thought. For this reason, it is perhaps impossible to know exactly when the embryo or fetus feels pain, even if it has developed the links in the thalamus.

<TITLE>American Revolutionary War</TITLE>
The American Revolutionary War was a war fought between Great Britain and the original 13 British colonies in America. The war took place from 1775 to 1783. The American Army , led by George Washington, and other generals, defeated the armies of the British Empire. The colonies became independent. 

The war came to be after years of problems between the British Empire and the colonists of North America.There were 13 Colonies altogether. The colonists did not like many of the actions of the British government and taxes. The colonists fought to take land from the natives but they did not own it. They had to pay rent to the King in London. Many colonists did not think this was fair. In 1765, the British Parliament passed a Law called the Stamp Act. This law said that colonists had to buy stamps for all legal papers, newspapers, and even playing cards. The colonies did not follow this law. Large groups of people attacked people who were even thought to have the stamps. The law was changed in 1766. By this time, many colonists believed the revolution against King George III was already fought and won. The British sent more soldiers to keep control of the colonies. In 1774, the British passed the Intolerable Acts. Other battles were also fought before the war started. The Boston Tea Party and Boston Massacre caused people to become more mad about the situation.

Not all colonists wanted to leave the British Empire. The Loyalists, or Tories, stayed loyal to Great Britain. They were not going to change their views. The Patriots, who were said to have the opposite view of the Loyalists, wanted independence.

There were many papers written showing how the colonists felt. Thomas Paine wrote Common Sense, a famous pamphlet about independence from Britain. Other colonial leaders, such as Samuel Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson wanted independence. but who won the war

 Great Britain accepted the independence of the colonies. It also gave all the land it said it owned which was west of the Appalachians as far as the Mississippi River to the new country. 

<TITLE>Ampere</TITLE>
The ampere or amp is the standard unit of electric current. For instance, an electric current of one amp is one coulomb per second. The amp is named after André-Marie Ampère who studied electromagnetism.

The amp is defined using two parallel wires placed one metre apart in a vacuum. The wires are very long and very thin. One amp is defined as the current producing an attractive force of 2×10–7 newtons per metre of length between these wires.

<TITLE>Algorithm</TITLE>
An algorithm is a step by step list of directions that need to be followed to solve a problem. The instructions should be simple enough so that each step can be done without thinking about it. Algorithms are often used to describe how a computer might solve a problem. But there are algorithms in the real world too. A recipe can be a type of algorithm. It tells what ingredients are needed to make the dish and what steps to follow. If the recipe tells exactly what to do without too much confusion, then it is an algorithm.

 There is usually more than one way to solve a problem; there may be many different recipes to make a certain dish which look different but end up tasting the same when all is said and done. The same is true for algorithms. However, some of these ways will be better than others. If a recipe needs lots of complicated ingredients that you do not have, it is not as a good as a simple recipe. When we look at algorithms as a way of solving problems, often we want to know how long it would take a computer to solve the problem using a particular algorithm. When we write algorithms, we like our algorithm to take the least amount of time so that we can solve our problem as quickly as possible.

In cooking, some recipes are more difficult to do than others, because they take more time to finish or have more things to keep track of. It's the same for algorithms, and algorithms are better when they are easier for the computer to do. The thing that measures how hard an algorithm is is called complexity. When we ask how complex an algorithm is, often we want to know how long it will take a computer to solve the problem we want it to solve.

These are examples of algorithms for sorting a stack of cards with many different numbers, so that the numbers are in order.

Players start with a stack of cards that have not been sorted This algorithm goes through the stack of cards, one card at a time; this card is compared to the next card in the stack. Please note that this position only changes in step 3. This algorithm is called bubble sort. It is slow. 

Let us take a stack of the cards with the numbers "5 1 4 2 8", and sort it from smallest number to biggest one using this algorithm. In each step, the algorithm compares the elements written in bold. The top of the stack of cards is on the left hand side.

 Here, the algorithm compares the first two elements, and swaps them. These elements are already in order, so the algorithm does not swap them.

 Now, the stack of cards is already sorted, but our algorithm does not know this. The algorithm needs one whole pass without any swap to know it is sorted.

 Finally, the array is sorted, and the algorithm can stop.

 This is a easy to understand algorithm for sorting. Computer scientists called it Bubble sort, because smaller elements will rise to the top, changing their position in each run. Unfortunately, the algorithm is not very good, because it needs a long time to sort it.

This algorithm uses another idea. Sometimes solving a problem is difficult, but the problem can be changed so it is made of simpler problems, that are easier to solve. This is called recursion. It is more difficult to understand than the first example, but it will give a better algorithm.

 This works with two stacks of cards, one of them is called A, the other is called B. There is a third stack that is empty at the start, called C. At the end, it will contain the result.

 John von Neumann developed this algorithm in 1945. He didn't call it Sorting by numbers, he called it Mergesort. It is a very good algorithm for sorting, compared to others.

The first algorithm takes much longer to sort the cards than the second, but it can be improved . Looking at bubble sort, it can be noticed that cards with high numbers move from the top of the stack quite quickly, but cards with low numbers, at the bottom of the stack take a long time to rise .

 This algorithm was developed by C. A. R. Hoare in 1960. It is one of most widely used algorithms for sorting today. It is called Quicksort

 If players have cards with colors and numbers on them, they can sort them by color and number if they do the "sorting by colors" algorithm, then do the "sorting by numbers" algorithm to each colored stack, then put the stacks together.

The sorting by numbers algorithms are more difficult to do than the sorting by colors algorithm, because they may have to do the steps again many times. One would say that sorting by numbers is more complex.

<TITLE>Annual plant</TITLE>
In Botany, an annual plant is a plant that usually , flowers and dies in one year. True annuals will only live longer than a year if they are prevented from setting seed. Some seedless plants can also be considered annuals even though they do not flower.

In gardening, annual often refers to a plant grown outdoors in the spring and summer and surviving just for one growing season. Many food plants are, or are grown as, annuals, including most domesticated grains. Some perennials and biennials are grown in gardens as annuals for convenience, particularly if they are not considered cold hardy for the local climate. Carrot, celery and parsley are true biennials that are usually grown as annual crops for their edible roots, petioles and leaves, respectively. Tomato, sweet potato and bell pepper are tender perennials usually grown as annuals.

Ornamental annuals are often called bedding plants. Annuals are often used in gardens to provide splashes of color, as they tend to have a longer season of bloom than hardy herbaceous perennials. 

Examples of true annuals include corn, lettuce, pea, cauliflower, watermelon, bean, zinnia and marigold.

 Summer annuals sprout, flower and die within the same spring/summer/fall. The lawn weed, crabgrass, is a summer annual

<TITLE>Atlas (disambiguation)</TITLE>
Atlas, most commonly means a collection of maps, traditionally bound into book form.

<TITLE>Alexander the Great</TITLE>
Alexander the Great was a Ancient Macedonian king of the Greek kingdom of Macedon. He was born in the city of Pella and his father was the king Philip II. He was taught most of his skills in Athens during his childhood. He was taught by a great teacher and world famous Athenian philosopher named Aristotle, and through his teachings he became the world's first great military commander. At the age of 20 he became the king of Macedonia, after his father had been assassinated by a former bodyguard. He is known for his military skills. He wanted to rule a large empire called Persia. He is often listed as one of the greatest military commanders in history, along with Hannibal Barca, Ashoka the Great, Julius Caesar, Genghis Khan, Subutai, Napoleon I of France, and others. 

By the time of his death he had conquered most of the Middle Eastern world known to Europeans, which included ancient Pakistan, Persia, Egypt, and Asia Minor. He died in Babylon in 323 BC of an unknown cause. Nobody knows the cause of Alexander's death. Some people have said his death was caused by poison in wine, murder, or fever.

<TITLE>Asparagales</TITLE>
Asparagales is an order of flowering plants. The order must include the family Asparagaceae, but other families included in the order have varied markedly between different classifications. No one is sure, but it is supposed that this group of plants evolved between late and early Cretaceous. But because of the difficult classification of the families it's not entirely certain when they evolved.

<TITLE>Alismatales</TITLE>
Alismatales is an order of flowering plants. The order will of necessity contain the family Alismataceae.

<TITLE>Apiales</TITLE>
The Apiales are an order of flowering plants. The families given at right are typical of newer classifications, though there is some slight variation, and in particular the Torriceliaceae may be divided. These families are placed within the asterid group of dicotyledons.

<TITLE>Asterales</TITLE>
The Asterales are an order of flowering plants which include the composite family Asteraceae and its related families.

<TITLE>Asteroid</TITLE>
An asteroid is like a planet, but smaller. The name "asteroid" means "like a star" in the ancient Greek language. Asteroids may look like small stars in the sky, but they really do move around the Sun, while stars only seem to move because the Earth spins. Like planets, asteroids do not make their own light. Because of this, some people think "asteroids" is not a good name, and think that the name "planetoid" would be a better name.

Most asteroids are made of rock, but some are made of ice or metal. Most asteroids in our Solar System are in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter.

 Asteroids are the leftover rock and other material from the formation of the Solar System. These rocks were too small to make a planet, and could not collide to form one. the typea of asteroids include Type M, Type S, and Type C.

 In the 1600s, Gisuppe Piazzi found the first asteroid. It was named Ceres, and is the biggest object in the asteroid belt. Other asteroids, like Juno, Pallas, and Vesta were found later. Today, astronomers know of hundreds of thousands of asteroids, which range from parts of a mile to 600 miles across. 

<TITLE>Anime</TITLE>
Anime is Japanese for "Animation", or cartoons. In some places, the term anime refers to Japanese Animation or Animation similar in style to Japanese Animation. But in Japan, anime means all animation in general. This article is about Japanese animation.

Some anime is drawn by hand, but anime can also be made with computers. There are many types of anime; you can find anime about sports, magic, or romance. These are just some examples. Anime is shown on television, on DVD and VHS, and is used in computer and video games. Also, some anime cartoons are just movies, but they have cartoon characters and animation instead of real people and places. Anime is often based on Japanese comics that are called manga and graphic novels. Sometimes live action movies and television series are based on an anime. 

The history of anime begins around 1900, when Japanese filmmakers tried ways of animation that came from France, Germany, United States and Russia.

The filmmakers in Japan did not have a lot of money to make their movies and not a lot of places where they could film their movies. The people that the filmmakers could use as actors in their movies was also a problem for making Japanese movies. Japanese people look different from people in other places in the world, and it was hard for filmmakers to make a movie about places other than Japan with Japanese actors. Movie makers liked animation because then they could have animator draw other places and people that could not be filmed in a normal movie, and the animators could be very creative with the cartoons they made.

During the 1970s, more and more people started to like manga. At the same time, manga were used as the starting point to make anime with the same characters and stories. Animators would take the drawings done by a manga artist and the stories the manga artist wrote, and turn them into the stories and characters of a similar anime. At that time Osamu Tezuka became very popular. Now he is called a "legend" and the "god of manga". Tezuka and other pioneers of anime made a lot of types of stories and styles that are common to anime today. The giant robot genre began with manga and anime from Tezuka's ideas. Robot anime like Gundam and Macross became classics in the 1980s. Today, the robot genre is still very popular in Japan and worldwide. In the 1980s, anime became very popular in Japan, and saw an increase in production. . There are a lot of different kinds of anime that many different kinds of people like besides Mecha, and there are types of anime based on the age of the people who might like it or the subject of the anime.

Very popular stories in anime and manga are often translate into other languages, and the words used in the anime or manga will be put into another language where they mean the same thing. That way, people who live outside of Japan and who do not understand Japanese can also understand the stories. If a manga or anime is not translated by a company in another country, sometimes people in that country will translate the story to share with other people for free before a company translates it for the general public.

In the late 1980s, lots of people in countries other than Japan started to like anime too. In the United States, giant robot anime became popular. In Europe, anime for children became popular. Today, many different kinds of anime are popular all around the world.

<TITLE>Ankara</TITLE>
Ankara is the capital city of the country of Turkey. It is located in the center of Anatolia. Ankara is the second largest city after Istanbul. The city has a population of 4,319,167 , and an elevation of 850 m. It was formerly known as Angora or Engürü, and in Roman as Ancyra, and in classical and Hellenistic periods as Άγκυρα Ánkyra. The city is also the capital of Ankara Province.

<TITLE>Arabic language</TITLE>
Arabic is a Semitic language, in the same family as Hebrew and Aramaic. Around 250 million people use it for their first language. Many more people can also understand it, but not as a first language. It is written with the Arabic alphabet. There are many different dialects of it found around the Arab world.

The language is very important in Islam, because Muslims believe that Allah used it to talk to Muhammad through the Archangel Gabriel Jibreal, giving him the Quran in Arabic. Most Arabic speakers are Muslims; however, not all are. 

In the Western world, Arabic is also becoming a popular language to learn. Many other languages have borrowed words from Arabic, because of its importance in history. Some of the many English words that can be traced to Arabic are: sugar, cotton, magazine, algebra, and alcohol.

<TITLE>Alfred Hitchcock</TITLE>
Alfred Hitchcock was a British film director who later became an American citizen but still kept his British citizenship. He mostly did mystery and suspense films. He is known for appearing in a very small role in most of his films. 

Hitchcock started his career in England, starting with silent films in the 1920s. In the 1930s he made some successful films like The Man Who Knew Too Much , The 30 Steps and The Lady Vanishes . He then moved to the United States to work in Hollywood. His first American film was Rebecca , which won an Oscar. 

Some of his best known films from the 1940s are Spellbound and Notorious , which was inspired by psychoanalysis. His first film in color was the experimental Rope . Strangers on a Train was based on a novel by Patricia Highsmith. In the 1950s, he made three popular films with Grace Kelly: Dial M for Murder , Rear Window and To Catch a Thief . In 1956 he made a new version of The Man Who Knew Too Much, starring James Stewart and Doris Day. He returned to black-and-white with The Wrong Man before making Vertigo . It was followed by three more successful films: North by Northwest , Psycho and The Birds . After that he only made 5 more films: Marnie , Torn Curtain , Topaz , Frenzy and Family Plot .

He also hosted a TV show, Alfred Hitchcock Presents.

He was married to Alma Reville, who helped write some of his films. They had a daughter, Patricia. 

<TITLE>Anaconda</TITLE>
The anaconda is the one of biggest snakes in the world. Also known as the Water Boa, this giant meat-eater lives in swampy areas of tropical South America. It spends a lot of time in shallow water, hidden from unsuspecting prey. Anacondas are related to boa constrictors. They give birth to live young; 20 to 40 baby snakes are born at one time. The largest specimens measured 25 feet long and weighed 550 pounds. Although reports of animals 35-40 feet exist, since no specimens of such sizes have been put in museums these reports remain unverified.

 Anacondas are carnivores . They mostly hunt at night . Anacondas kill by constricting the prey until it can no longer breathe. Sometimes they drown the prey. Like all snakes, they swallow the prey whole, head first. The anaconda's top and bottom jaws are attached to each other with stretchy ligaments, which let the snake swallow animals wider than itself. Snakes don't chew their food, they digest it with very strong acids II in the snake's stomach. Anacondas eat pigs, deer, caiman , birds, fish, rodents , and other animals. After eating a large animal, the anaconda needs no food for a long time, and rests for weeks. The young can care for themselves soon after birth, including hunting . They eat small rodents , baby birds, frogs and small fish.

<TITLE>Altaic languages</TITLE>
Altaic is suggested as a language family. It would include 66 languages that are spoken by about 348 million people, mostly in and around Central Asia and northeast Asia.

According to the best-known classification of Altaic, it consists of the Turkic, Mongolic, and Tungusic language families. It is probably fair to say that this is the meaning attributed to "Altaic" by most general linguists. 

However, since the publication of Gustaf John Ramstedt's Einführung in 1952–1957, most Altaicists have included Korean in Altaic. Since the publication of Roy Andrew Miller's Japanese and the Other Altaic Languages in 1971, most have also included Japanese or better Japonic, consisting of Japanese and Ryukyuan. 

A few linguists even count Ainu with the Altaic languages, but as part of a node including Korean and Japanese, in contradistinction to a Turkic-Mongolic-Tungusic node, with Korean-Japanese-Ainu and Turkic-Mongolic-Tungusic in turn forming a node at a higher level . 

The core version of Altaic, consisting of Turkic, Mongolic, and Tungusic, is sometimes referred to as "Micro-Altaic" while the expanded version, including Korean or Korean and Japanese, is referred to as "Macro-Altaic". 

<TITLE>Aegean Sea</TITLE>
The Aegean Sea is part of the Mediterranean Sea. It is between the Greece and Anatolia. It is connected to the Marmara Sea and the Black Sea by the Dardanelles and Bosporus.

In ancient people thought differently about why it was named Aegean. Maybe it was named after the town of Aegae, or Aegea, a queen of the Amazons who died in the sea. Maybe it was named after Aegeus, the father of Theseus. Legends say that Aegeus killed himself in the sea when he thought his son was dead.

The Greek name for the sea is Αἰγαῖον Πέλαγος Aigaion Pelagos, Modern Greek: Αιγαίο Πέλαγος . The Turkish name is Ege Denizi. Some people think that the name came from the dialect word αἶγες "waves" .

In ancient times two groups of people lived near the sea - the Minoans of Crete, and the Myceneans of the Peloponnese. The city-states of Athens and Sparta came later and were part of Ancient Greece. Persians, Romans, the Byzantine Empire, the Venetians people from Venice, the Seljuk Turks, and the Ottoman Empire later started around the Aegean Sea. The people near the Aegean were very advanced in Ancient history and they sailed across it to talk to each other.

There are seven groups of Aegean islands: the Thracian Sea group, the East Aegean group, the Northern Sporades, the Cyclades, the Saronic Islands , the Dodecanese and Crete. The word archipelago used to mean these islands. Many of the Aegean islands, or chains of islands, are part of the mountain ranges on the mainland. One chain goes across the sea to Chios, another one goes across Euboea to Samos, and a third one goes across the Peloponnese and Crete to Rhodes. This one divides the Aegean from the Mediterranean. Many of the islands have safe harbours and bays, but sailing in the sea is difficult. Many of the islands are volcanos, and marble and iron are mined on other islands. The bigger islands have some green valleys and plains. Turkey owns two big islands on the Aegean Sea: Bozcaada and Gökçeada .

<TITLE>A Clockwork Orange</TITLE>
A Clockwork Orange is a violent 1962 science fiction book by Anthony Burgess about the bitter future when mankind is recovering from the Post Apocalyptic event which was used by Stanley Kubrick for a 1971 movie. In the movie/book they spoke English and a dialect of Russian called Nadsat.

<TITLE>Amsterdam</TITLE>
Amsterdam is the capital and largest city in the European country of the Netherlands. Amsterdam is famous for its canals and dikes. Unlike most other countries, the government is not in Amsterdam, but in The Hague.

Amsterdam has about 800,000 inhabitants, two universities and an international airport "Schiphol Airport". About 2.2 miilion people live in the metropolitan area. The city of Amsterdam is the world's most multi-cultural city. It has people living there from 175 different countries.

 A dam was built in 13th century in the river Amstel . The old harbor of the city, Damrak, is now one of the busiest streets in the city. The city was for the first time mentioned in 1275 by king Floris V who give the people of Amsterdam a bit more freedom. The city got its city rights probably in 1306; at least soon after the year 1300. The city became a major trading port pretty soon, with a successful trading route to the Baltic Sea. The city grew fast in the 15th century. Because the city basically lies in swamp, the builders of the city had to dig canals to use the digging-ground for getting the living-ground higher. Homes were built on wooden poles, and the canals served as a pretty effective primitive sewer. 

The city was one the first cities in Western Europe to be fairly democratic: Wealthy citizens chose the leaders of the city. Amsterdam declared war on the Spanish in 1578, during the Eighty Years' War. When the city of Antwerp fell to the Spanish in 1585, many people of Antwerp fled to Amsterdam. Antwerp was also a major trading city, and because many fled to Amsterdam, these people took their trading-networks with them. That's why Amsterdam became an even more important trading city after that. This automatically led to the Dutch Golden Age. The number of people living in Amsterdam during the War rose from less than 30,000 in 1570 to over 100,000 in 1622. That number would even rise to 200,000 near the end of the 17th century, making the city a very large city for its time . In the 18th century, the number of people living in Amsterdam fell back to 140,000, ending the Golden Age. 

The 19th century was the time for the first trains and trams to ride in Amsterdam. The first train ran from Amsterdam to Haarlem in 1839. The number of people also was rising, with about 250,000 living in Amsterdam in 1850, and more than 500,000 in 1900. Amsterdam was a heavy industrialised city by then. Before the Second World War, there were about 140,000 Jews living in Amsterdam. Most of those people did not survive the war. After the war, Amsterdam became a centre of tolerance and culture; to be different is not abnormal in Amsterdam. It is expected that Amsterdam will grow 12.6% until 2025. It will then hold almost 900,000 people, and the metropolitan area will hold almost 2.5 million people by then. 

<TITLE>Audi</TITLE>
Audi AG is a German automobile manufacturer with headquarters in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, and has been an almost wholly owned subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group since 1964.

<TITLE>Aircraft</TITLE>
An aircraft is a flying machine. There are lots of different types of aircraft, such as aeroplanes, helicopters, gliders, human powered aircraft, and hot air balloons.

Less than 100 years ago, even the fastest ship took more than a week to cross the Atlantic Ocean. Today most jet airliners can make this 4,800-km journey in less than seven hours. Aircraft are the fastest way to travel because they can soar straight over obstacles such as mountains and ocean. Powerful jet engines enable the fastest combat aircraft to reach speeds of 3,200 km/h airliners fly at more than 850 km/h . Modern aircraft are packed with advanced technology to help fly safely and economically at great speed. Sophisticated electronic control computer-designed wings help cut fuel costs. And airframes are made of metal alloys and plastic composites that are lightweight and strong. 

<TITLE>Alfred Nobel</TITLE>
Alfred Nobel was a Swedish scientist and weapon manufacturer. He is best known for the invention of dynamite and for starting the Nobel Prize awards. He left instructions in his will that his money should found the Nobel Prize after reading an article in a French newspaper that called him the "merchant of death" and said that he would be remembered for his invention of dynamite and its ability to kill more people than ever before. He left 31 million kronor to the awards. He died two weeks after adding the part funding the prize in his will. The first Nobel Prizes were for physics, chemistry, medicine, literature and peace.

<TITLE>Alexander Graham Bell</TITLE>
Alexander Graham Bell was a teacher, scientist, and inventor. He was the founder of the Bell Telephone Company.

Bell was born in Edinburgh, Scotland. His family was known for teaching people how to speak English clearly . His grandfather taught in China, his uncle in Dublin, and his father, Mr. Alexander Melville Bell, in Edinburgh. His father wrote often about this and is most known for his book on Visible Speech. In this, he explains a way of teaching people who are deaf and mute. It shows how these people can learn to speak words by using their eyes to read what other people are saying, and by watching their lips.

Alexander Graham Bell went to the Royal High School of Edinburgh. He graduated at the age of fourteen. At the age of sixteen, he got a job as a student and teacher of elocution and music in Weston House Academy, at Elgin in Morayshire. He spent the next year at the University of Edinburgh. While still in Scotland, he became more interested in the science of sound . He hoped to help his deaf mother. From 1866 to 1867, he was a teacher at Somersetshire College in Bath, Somerset. 

In 1870 when he was 23 years old, he moved with his family to Canada where they settled at Brantford, Ontario. Bell began to study communication machines. He made a piano that could be heard far away by using electricity. In 1873, he went with his father to Montreal, Quebec in Canada, where he took a job teaching about "visible speech". Bell was strongly disliked among women in Quebec. His father was asked to teach about it at a large school for deaf mutes in Boston, but instead he gave the job to his son. He began teaching there in 1871. Alexander Graham Bell soon became famous in the United States for this important work. He published many writings about it in Washington, D.C.. Because of this work, thousands of deaf mutes in America are now able to speak, even though they cannot hear.

In 1876, Bell was first inventor to patent the telephone and started the Bell Telephone Company with others in July, 1877. In 1879, this company joined with the New England Telephone Company to form the National Bell Telephone Company. In 1880, they formed the American Bell Telephone Company, and in 1885, American Telephone and Telegraph Company , still a large company today. Along with Thomas Edison, Bell formed the Oriental Telephone Company on January 25, 1881.

Bell married Mabel Hubbard on July 11, 1877 who had previously hated Bell. It is a surprise that they had children. He died in Baddeck, Nova Scotia in 1922.

 Bell's genius is seen in part by the eighteen patents granted in his name alone and the twelve that he shared with others. These included fifteen for the telephone and telegraph, four for the photophone, one for the phonograph, five for aerial vehicles, four for hydroairplanes, and two for a selenium cell.In 2002, the United States Congress ruled that the Italian inventor Antonio Meucci is the real inventor of the telephone.In 1888, he was one of the original members of the National Geographic Society and became its second president.

He was the recipient of many honors.

 His past experience made him ready to work more with sound and electricity. He began his studies in 1874 with a musical telegraph, in which he used an electric circuit and a magnet to make an iron reed or tongue vibrate. One day, it was found that a reed failed to respond to the current. Mr. Bell desired his assistant, who was at the other end of the line, to pluck the reed, thinking it had stuck to the magnet. Mr. Watson complied, and to his surprise, Bell heard the corresponding reed at his end of the line vibrate and sound the same - without any electric current to power it. A few experiments soon showed that his reed had been set in vibration by the changes in the magnetic field that the moving reed produced in the line. This discovery led him to stop using the electric battery current. His idea was that, since the circuit was never broken, all the complex vibrations of speech might be converted into currents, which in turn would reproduce the speech at a distance.

Bell, with his assistant Watson, devised a receiver, consisting of a stretched film or drum with a bit of magnetised iron attached to its middle, and free to vibrate in front of the pole of an electromagnet in circuit with the line. This apparatus was completed on June 2, 1875. On July 7th, he instructed his assistant to make a second receiver which could be used with the first, and a few days later they were tried together, at each end of the line, which ran from a room in the inventor's house at Boston to the cellar underneath. Bell, in the room, held one instrument in his hands, while Watson in the cellar listened at the other. The inventor spoke into his instrument, "Do you understand what I say?" and Mr. Watson rushed back into the upstairs and answered "Yes." The first successful two-way telephone call was not made until March 10, 1876 when Bell spoke into his device, "Mr. Watson, come here, I want to see you." and Watson answered back. The first long distance telephone call was made on August 10, 1876 by Bell from the family home in Brantford, Ontario to his assistant located in Paris, Ontario, some 16 km away.

On March 7, 1876, the U.S. Patent Office gave him patent #174465 for the telephone.

 After that, Bell continued his experiments in communication, which led to the invention of the photophone – sending of sound on a beam of light. Bell worked with Charles Sumner Tainter. In his paper on the phonophone, Bell gave credit to A. C. Browne of London with the discovery in 1878. Bell and Tainter, however, were likely the first to perform a successful experiment. It was not an easy task, as they had to produce selenium cells with the desired properties themselves.

In one experiment in Washington, D.C., the sender and the receiver were placed on in different buildings some 830 ft. apart. The sender had a mirror directing sunlight onto the mouthpiece, where the light beam was chnged by a vibrating mirror. It was focused by a lens and sent at the receiver, which was a curved mirror with the selenium cells in the focus and a telephone attached. With this setup, Bell and Tainter succeeded to communicate clearly.

The photophone was patented on December 18, 1880. However, since the light beam was not shielded in any way against external interference, the quality of communication was not always good, and it only worked within line-of-sight. It is still considered a precursor of the much later fiber optic technology, which is based on the same ideas, but remove these limits.

 Bell is also credited with the invention of the metal detector in 1881. The device was quickly put together in an attempt to find the bullet in the body of U.S. President James Garfield. The metal detector worked, but didn't find the bullet because of the metal bedframe the President was lying on. Bell gave a full description of his experiments in a paper read before the "American Association for the Advancement of Science" in August, 1882.

Bell was an active supporter of the eugenics movement in the United States. He was the honorary president of the "Second International Congress of Eugenics" held at the American Museum of Natural History in New York in 1921. He didn't want deaf people to be allowed to teach in schools for the deaf. He also worked to pass laws that would not allow deaf people to marry others who were deaf. He was also against the use of sign language. These things mean that he is not appreciated by some deaf people in the present day.

<TITLE>Apple Inc.</TITLE>
Apple is an American company that makes computer hardware, computer software, and portable devices like mobile telephones and music players. Apple calls its computers Macintoshes or Macs. Their popular line of mobile music players are called iPods and a mobile phone they have released is called the iPhone. Apple sells their products all around the world. Apple Inc. used to be called Apple Computer, Inc.

 Apple was started in 1976 by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak. Before they made the company, they sold "blue boxes", which had telephone buttons on them. People could use them to make telephone calls from pay phones without paying any money. The company's first product is now called the Apple I computer. They were almost ready to sell it, but a problem happened. Steve Wozniak was working for the computer company Hewlett-Packard, and the papers that said he could work there said he had to give everything he invented to the company before he could do what he wanted to do with it. He showed the first Apple I to the boss at Hewlett-Packard, but they did not want his computer. Wozniak was free to do what he wanted to do with the Apple I. It was sold in 1976. In 1977 they made their second computer, called the Apple II.

One of the most popular products made by Apple is the iPod. It was introduced in 2001, and Apple sold over 100 million in six years. All iPods can play music, and newer ones with screens can display pictures and play video. There are several different types of iPods.

 The red iPod shuffle and iPod nano models are part of the " RED" program. This means that some of the money used to purchase these iPods goes to the Global Fund to fight AIDS in Africa.

Computers are what Apple is known for. Computers by Apple run the Mac OS X operating system, which is included with every new Mac.

 Apple also makes software for their computers. Some of the software that Apple makes is:

Most computer users in the world use Microsoft Windows, the rival to Mac OS X. About 8% of computer users use Apple's Macintosh computers. It is not legal to run Apple's Mac OS X on a Windows computer. However, it is allowed to run Windows on modern Macintosh computers. Even though Apple makes their computers to run Mac OS X, they also make software that allows you to install Windows. This software is called Boot Camp.

 The Apple TV is a box that plugs into a TV. It can connect wirelessly to any computer that has the Apple program iTunes on it. The Apple TV can play music, and show photos or videos from iTunes on your TV. It comes in two kinds:

 The iPhone is a phone, iPod, and more with a touch screen. The newest iPhone released uses 3G to surf the web. A new version, the iPhone 3GS boasts much faster application launching and a video recording function. The iPhones come in 8GB, 16GB, and 32GB types. The iPhone 3G comes in black and white The new price for the iPhone 3G 8GB is $199 and 16GB is $299. This new version was released on July 11, 2008. The price in the UK where released for O2 Pay and Go on 2nd September 2008. The price of the 8GB version is £350 and the 16GB is £399 to buy the phone without a plan. The UK version was released on the 16th September 2008.

 Following several campaigns , Apple has made their products greener. Recently, the new notebook line removed many toxins and improved the products battery life and recharge cycles.

 Since formation of the Apple Computer Company in 1977, Apple has employed over 75,000 people worldwide. The majority of Apple's employees have been located in the United States but Apple has substantial manufacturing, sales, marketing, and support organizations worldwide, with some engineering operations in Paris and Tokyo.

Apple employees include employees of companies Apple owns, and less important, but still relevant companies such as FileMaker Inc. and Braeburn Capital.

 Apple Corps has repeatedly sued Apple Inc. for trademark infringement. In the first case, Apple Inc. agreed not to go into the music industry. Apple Corps believes this agreement was broken when Apple Inc. launched iTunes, the music store.

<TITLE>Aberdeenshire</TITLE>
Aberdeenshire is the name of both a county and of one of the 32 unitary council areas in Scotland. The two are not the same area.

Aberdeenshire stretches from the east coast of Scotland up into the mountains. It is between Kincardineshire and Angus and Banffshire . Aberdeen is the county town.

Aberdeenshire is mainly countryside and mountain, except in Aberdeen. Aberdeen is one of Britain's richest towns because it serves the North Sea oil rigs.

Fraserburgh is a large fishing port.

The Aberdeenshire council area takes in the historic counties of Aberdeenshire and Kincardineshire and half of Banffshire. It does not include Aberdeen City though, which is a Council Area in its own right. However, Aberdeenshire Council does have its headquarters at Woodhill House, in Aberdeen; the only Scottish council whose headquarters are based outwith its area's border.

Aberdeenshire borders Angus and Perth and Kinross to the south, and Highland and Moray to the west. 

<TITLE>American Civil War</TITLE>
The American Civil War was fought from 1861 to 1865 in the United States. Eleven southern slave states declared their independence from the United States to protect slavery, and joined together as the Confederate States of America . The CSA fought against "the Union", which was the U.S. federal government supported by all the states that did not declare their independence. The Union states were all those in which slavery was not legal and five states in which slavery was legal . The United States did not recognize the Confederate claims of independence, nor did any other nation. Fighting started when the Confederates bombarded a Union fort within the territory claimed by the Confederacy. The war was fought mostly in the South, and because both sides were American, was one of the deadliest in U.S. history. The Union won the war, resulting in the end of slavery in the United States.

 There were many causes of the Civil War, and some started long ago in the first American colonies. One big issue was states' rights, while another was slavery.

Slavery in the United States first began in Virginia in 1619. By the end of the American Revolution, most northern states had abandoned the institution while it continued to grow and flourish in the plantation economy of the South. In the years prior to the Civil War almost all sectional conflicts revolved around the slave issue. This began with the debates over the three-fifths clause at the Constitutional Convention of 1787 and continued with the Compromise of 1820, the Nullification Crisis, the anti-slavery Gag Rule, and the Compromise of 1850.

 Throughout the first half of the 19th century, Southern politicians sought to defend slavery by retaining control of the federal government. While they benefited from most presidents being from the South, they were particularly concerned about retaining a balance of power within in the Senate. As new states were added to the Union, a series of compromises were arrived at to maintain an equal number of "free" and "slave" states.

In 1820, Maine entered as a free state while Missouri joined as a slave state. The balance was finally disrupted in 1850, when Southerners permitted California to enter as a free state in exchange for laws strengthening slavery. This balance was further upset with the additions of free Minnesota and Oregon .

The widening of the gap between slave and free states was symbolic of the changes occurring in each region. While the South was devoted to an agrarian plantation economy with a slow growth in population, the North had embraced industrialization, large urban areas, infrastructure growth, as well as was experiencing high birth rates and a large influx of European immigrants. This boost in population doomed Southern efforts to maintain balance in the government as it meant the future addition of more free states and the election of a Northern, potentially anti-slavery, president.

The political issue that finally moved the nation towards conflict was that of slavery in the western territories won during the Mexican-American War. A similar issue had been dealt with earlier, in 1820, when, as part of the Missouri Compromise, slavery was permitted in the Louisiana Purchase south of 36°30'N latitude . Rep. David Wilmot attempted to prevent slavery in the new territories in 1846, when he introduced the Wilmot Proviso in Congress. After extensive debate it was defeated, but it gave rise to a political movement called the "Free Soil Party".

In 1850, an attempt was made to resolve the issue. A part of Compromise of 1850 called for slavery in the unorganized lands received from Mexico to be decided by popular sovereignty. This meant that the local people and their territorial legislatures would decide for themselves whether slavery would be permitted. Many thought that this decision had solved the issue until it was raised again in 1854 with the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act.

Proposed by Sen. Stephen Douglas of Illinois, the Kansas-Nebraska Act essentially repealed the line imposed by the Missouri Compromise. Douglas, an ardent believer in grassroots democracy, felt that all the territories should be subject to popular sovereignty. Seen as a concession to the South, the act led to an influx of pro- and anti-slavery forces into Kansas. Operating from rival territorial capitals, the "Free Staters" and "Border Ruffians" engaged in open violence for three years.

Though pro-slavery forces from Missouri had openly and improperly influenced elections in the territory, President James Buchanan accepted their Lecompton Constitution, and offered it to Congress for statehood. This was turned down by Congress which ordered a new election. In 1859, the anti-slavery Wyandotte Constitution was accepted by Congress. The fighting in Kansas further heightened tensions between North and South.

For some decades, when new states were admitted to the Union, Congress ensured that the number of free states was kept in balance with the number of slave states, thus keeping the votes in the Senate balanced. The South was able to control Congress, and exerted a powerful influence on both the White House and the Supreme Court. The Mexican-American War was begun in 1846 to secure land claimed by Texas when it was annexed to the United States in 1845 as a slave state, and a dispute started over whether the additional lands won in the war with Mexico would also allow slavery. The Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854 repealed the 1820 Missouri Compromise and the Compromise of 1850, allowing all territories to decide for themselves whether to allow slavery or not. Bloody battles broke out in Kansas as slave-owners tried to ensure that when Kansas became a state, it would be a slave state. The admission of Kansas was delayed because of disputes over whether it would have a slave or free Constitution.

After the admission of Texas as a free state in 1845, the next five states were all admitted as free states, giving the free states greater representation in the Senate. Furthermore, the population in the North was increasing much more quickly than in the South, and the North thus gained greater representation in the House of Representatives and in the Electoral College. Lincoln was able to be elected president without even being on the ballot in 10 Southern states, and the South was facing a future in which it would be in a permanent minority position.

Some abolitionists did want the federal government to act to end slavery in the states, but Lincoln and moderate Republicans agreed that the federal government was Constitutionally prevented from abolishing slavery in states in which it already was legal. The chief controversy at the time was over whether or not the federal government could outlaw slavery in the territories that were not yet states. Supporters of slavery argued that, under the Tenth Amendment, the federal government could not stop slaveholders from taking their "property" into any new territory. Some extended this argument, saying slave "property" could even be taken into those states where slavery was already outlawed. The Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 obliged Northerners to assist in the return of suspected fugitive slaves. 

Southerners recognized that control of the government was slipping away from them, and became convinced that the North was intent on ending slavery. Even if the federal government took no action to abolish slavery in the states in which it already existed, both sides believed that slavery would eventually die out if it were not allowed to expand. Southerners believed that the only way they could preserve slavery was to withdraw from the United States. They argued that each state had a right to withdraw from the nation, even if the other states did not consent. Before Lincoln was inaugurated, seven Southern slave states declared their secession from the United States.

The issue of slavery was further heightened by the rise of the Abolitionist movement in the 1820s and 1830s. Beginning in the North, adherents believed that slavery was morally wrong rather than simply a social evil. Abolitionists ranged in their beliefs from those who thought that all slaves should be freed immediately to those calling for gradual emancipation , to those who simply wanted to stop the spread of slavery and its influence .

Abolitionists campaigned for the end of the "peculiar institution" and supported anti-slavery causes such as the Free State movement in Kansas. Upon the rise of the Abolitionists, an ideological debate arose with the Southerners regarding the morality of slavery with both sides frequently citing Biblical sources. In 1852, the Abolitionist cause received increased attention following the publication of the anti-slavery novel Uncle Tom's Cabin. Written by Harriet Beecher Stowe, the book aided in turning the public against the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850.

John Brown first made a name for himself during the "Bleeding Kansas" crisis. A fervent abolitionist, Brown, along with his sons, fought with anti-slavery forces and were best known for the "Pottawatomie Massacre" where they killed five pro-slavery farmers. While most abolitionists were pacifists, Brown advocated violence and insurrection to end the evils of slavery.

In October 1859, financed by the extreme wing of the Abolitionist movement, Brown and eighteen men attempted to raid the government armory at Harper's Ferry, VA. Believing that the nation's slaves were ready to rise up, Brown attacked with the goal of obtaining weapons for the insurrection. After initial success, the raiders were cornered in the armory's engine house by local militia. Shortly thereafter, US Marines under Lt. Col. Robert E. Lee arrived and captured Brown. Tried for treason, Brown was hanged that December. Before his death, he predicted that "the crimes of this guilty land will never be purged away; but with Blood."

The tensions between North and South were mirrored in a growing schism in the nation's political parties. Following the compromise of 1850 and the Kansas-Nebraska Act, the nation's two major parties, the Whigs and Democrats, began to fracture along regional lines. In the North, the Whigs largely blended into a new party: the Republicans. Formed in 1854, as an anti-slavery party, the Republicans offered a progressive vision for the future that included an emphasis on industrialization, education, and homesteading. Though their presidential candidate, John C. Frémont, was defeated in 1856, the party polled strongly in the North and showed that it was the Northern party of the future. In the South, the Republican Party was viewed as a divisive element and one that could lead to conflict. Southern Whigs instead turned to the "Know-Nothing" Party, a reference to its secret meetings, which did not oppose slavery. 

With the division of the Democrats into Northern and Southern wings, there was much apprehension as the election 1860 approached. The lack of a candidate with national appeal signaled that change was coming. Representing the Republicans was Abraham Lincoln, while Stephen Douglas stood for the Northern Democrats. Their counterparts in the South nominated John C. Breckinridge. Looking to find a compromise, former Whigs and Know-Nothings in the border states created the Constitutional Union Party and nominated John C. Bell.

Balloting unfolded along precise sectional lines as Lincoln won the North, Breckinridge won the South, and Bell won the border states. Douglas claimed Missouri and part of New Jersey. The North, with its growing population and increased electoral power had accomplished what the South had always feared: complete control of the government by the free states.

In response to Lincoln's victory, South Carolina opened a convention to discuss seceding from the Union. On December 24, 1860, it adopted a declaration of secession and withdrew its representatives from Congress. Through the "Secession Winter" of 1861, it was followed by Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas. As more states declared their secession, local forces took control of federal forts and installations within their borders without any resistance from the Buchanan Administration. The most egregious act took place in Texas, where Gen. David E. Twiggs surrendered one-quarter of the entire standing US Army without a shot fired. When Lincoln finally entered office on March 4, 1861, he inherited a collapsing nation.

 The Confederate States claimed ownership of all forts and other federal buildings within their territory. Fort Sumter in South Carolina remained in Union hands. On April 12, 1861, Confederate forces bombarded and forced the surrender of Union forces inside the fort. Following this, President Lincoln called for volunteers from each state to take back the captured forts, defend Washington, D.C., and suppress the rebellion. Swiftly four more states joined with the Confederates rather than supply forces to suppress them.

There were two important areas where the American Civil War was fought - in the west and in the east. 

In the eastern area, there was the US capital, Washington D.C., and the Confederate capital, Richmond, Virginia. These two cities are only about 90 miles apart. In this area, the Confederate military leader from 1862 until the end of the war was Robert E. Lee. Lee was a great general, and won many battles. Many times, his actions prevented the smaller number of Confederate troops from being badly beaten or destroyed by the Union troops. Even though the North had more soldiers, they could not capture Richmond until the end of the war in 1865. 

In the western area, there was the great river, the Mississippi. Ulysses S. Grant won many battles here. One of the earliest battles to take place in the western area was the Battle of Shiloh. The North captured almost all the cities on the Mississippi River, but the Confederacy still held Vicksburg, an important city and fort. On the 4th of July, 1863, following a long siege, Vicksburg surrendered to Grant. This divided the Confederacy into two. This victory is considered to be one of the turning points of the war.

There were also battles west of the Mississippi River, in the area called the Trans-Mississippi. Two battles which are considered important are the Battle of Wilson's Creek and the Battle of Pea Ridge. After the Union captured Vicksburg, this area became isolated from the rest of the South.

Another major turning point occurred at about the same time in the east. After several victories, General Lee decided to invade the North. Lee and his Army of Northern Virginia went into Pennsylvania. The Confederate army met the Union army near Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. The Battle of Gettysburg was fought over a three day period, July 1-3 in 1863. The invasion was stopped by Grant, and Lee and the Confederate army were pushed back to the South. 

Lincoln decided that Ulysses S. Grant was his best general. He put Grant in control of all the Union armies, and made William T. Sherman general of armies in Georgia. While Grant attacked Lee again and again, Sherman burned Atlanta and Savannah. Lee held out time and time again, but eventually the number of Union soldiers was too much for the smaller Confederate army. Lee decided he had too few soldiers to keep on fighting and he surrendered to Grant on April 9, 1865, near Appomattox Court House.

Following Lee's surrender, many other Confederate armies surrendered as well. The last Confederate general to surrender was Brigadier General Stand Watie on June 23 in Oklahoma. Some Confederates did not want to become part of the United States again; these people moved to Mexico and Brazil.

 Inflation occurred on both sides. The prices on everything were raised, and caused people in both the North and the South to go hungry if they could not afford the newly priced food. This suffering was an important factor in the South's surrender.

 Many soldiers died for both sides during the war. The South was hurt the most because most of the war was fought there. The South's economy was hurt very badly, too. The Union Army stayed in some Southern states for many years. This time is called "Reconstruction". Reconstruction ended in 1877.

Also, soon after the war, several constitutional amendments were made by the US government and passed with enough support from the people. Slavery was ended by the 13th Amendment. The 14th Amendment makes it clear that all people born in the United States are citizens with equal rights that cannot be taken away unless they do something against the law. The 15th Amendment says that people in the United States cannot be kept from voting because of their race. Other facts are that Generals Grant, Hayes, Garfield, Harrison, and McKinley became presidents or ran for the office.

<TITLE>Andy Warhol</TITLE>
Andy Warhol was one of the most famous American artists of the later half of the 20th century. He was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He originally worked as a commercial artist. He designed things like advertisements and window displays for stores. He soon became an artist, and was famous for being an artist in the Pop Art movement, in which everyday objects and media images were used. One of his most famous paintings is his colourful portrait of American movie star, Marilyn Monroe.after she died he was deeply moved and wanted to create a memorbila of somesort.His recreation or reonovation of her from afar shows astonishing beauty but if you look closely you will see it looks a bit distorted it looks like it was coluored in by a child it scarcely resembles a mask. One Marilyn wore to conceal the real her a sad,troulbed woman. the intensity and density of andy's sklill in portraying something like this would never be forgotten Warhol graduated from the Carnegie Instutute of Technology before moving to New York. His first big break was in August of 1949 when he was asked to illustrate an article in Glamour Magazine. He dropped the 'a' from the end of his name when the credits read "Drawings by Andrew Warhol". Warhol was also famous for painting Campbells and watties soup cans. He painted about 300 different paintings.

Warhol died in New York City aged 58 in his appartment after an operation on his gallbladder.

<TITLE>American Film Institute</TITLE>
The American Film Institute is an independent, organization that is designed not to make money created by the National Endowment for the Arts, which was started in 1967 when President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act.

George Stevens, Jr. was the first CEO. Since 1980, Jean Picker Firstenberg has been CEO.

Older figures in AFI's Conservatory train newer people.

The institute also wants to keep old film, which could soon be destroyed.

Even though its name only mentions film, AFI also works on television and video.

In 1973, the AFI began handing out Life Achievement Awards.

In 1998, when American cinema had existed for 100 years, AFI began its 100 Years Series, which helped people become interested in the history of movies.

Recently, it built and started the AFI Silver theatre in Silver Spring, Maryland near Washington, D.C.

<TITLE>Akira Kurosawa</TITLE>
Akira Kurosawa was a Japanese film director. Kurosawa's films are liked in Japan. Kurosawa's films are also liked by people in other countries. He made 30 films in 50 years. He is thought to be one of the most important film directors.

In many of his famous movies, including Rashomon and The Seven Samurai, he worked with the actor Toshiro Mifune.

<TITLE>Ancient Egypt</TITLE>
Ancient Egypt or the Egyptian Empire was a society that began about 3,500 BC and lasted until 20 BC when it was invaded by the Roman Empire. It grew along the River Nile and was its most powerful in the second millennium BC. At one time it went all the way from the Nile delta to a resources, especially the water from the Nile so that the Egyptians could have good crops. It is known for creating a way of writing called hieroglyphs, making big temples and tombs, trading with other areas, and its powerful military. The religion of Egypt was based on respect for their rulers and their past. Ancient Egypt was the proud holder of over 200 gods/goddesses.

 Archaeologists, or people who dig in the earth to find ancient objects, have found that people have lived along the Nile for a very long time. The fertile flood plains of the Nile allowed people to begin farming. By the 10th millennium BC, the people in Egypt had begun growing cereal grains like wheat and barley and because they were farming, they stayed in one place. because they were settled, society became more complex and involved. This was an important step in the history of human civilization.

the period during which many animals would have been first domesticated. This period in Egyptian history is called predynastic, as it happened before the large kingdoms were formed.

By about 5500 BC, small tribes living in the Nile valley had developed into a series of cultures. Each had begun farming both crops and animals. They had their own types of pottery and personal items, such as combs, bracelets, and beads. In upper Egypt, the north part of the country, the Badari was one of the biggest groups. It was known for its high quality pottery, stone tools, and its use of copper. They were followed by the Amratian and Gerzian cultures. They had improved tools and other new ideas. In Gerzian times, the people were making contact with Palestine and the Byblos coast .

The way archaeologists and historians keep track of the years of Egypt is using "regnal years", or the years that a pharaoh ruled. The different periods are:

 Ancient Egypt was split up into many different districts called sepats. The first divisions were created during the Predynastic Period, but then, they were small city-states that ruled themselves. When the first pharaoh came to power, the sepats remained and were much like the counties in today's England. They stayed basically the same for a very long time - there were 42 of them, and each was ruled by a governor called a nomarch. This person was put in power by the pharaoh.

Ancient Egypt had a lot of different taxes, but there was no real money, so people paid each other with goods or work. The person who watched the tax collection was called the scribe, and every tax collector in Egypt had to tell him every day how many taxes they had collected. Each person paid different taxes based on the work that they did: craftsmen paid in goods, hunters and fishermen paid with food, and every single household in the country had to pay a labour tax every year by helping with work for the country like mining or for canals. A lot of rich Egyptians paid poorer people to do this for them.

Egyptians had mostly cows for food.

Egypt had writing called hieroglyphic which is the oldest written language. Egyptologists, or people who study Ancient Egypt, call the writing of Egypt "hieroglyphs." It is like Japanese or Chinese because it started out as ideographic language, or writing made of pictures of the words. Egyptian is different from a lot of languages because it has no vowels - all sounds are consonants, or letters that aren't vowels. There are 24 sounds in the language.The hieroglyphics can be divided into six time periods:

Religion was very important to Ancient Egyptians. To Egyptians, all African animals were holy and were worshipped. Because of this, Egyptians domesticated, or made pets of, animals very early and took very good care of them. The centre of any Egyptian town was the temple, and this building was used for everything from the town hall to a university in addition to its religious services. 

Because they were so religious, Egyptians created a lot of art of their gods. This art shows all different kinds of divine, or holy, creatures including the pharaoh, who was thought to be a god. 

The afterlife was also very important to Egyptians and they are known for mummifying their dead. These mummies are important to scientists today because they tell them about how the Egyptians lived.

 Ancient Egyptians had very advanced medical knowledge for their time. They performed surgery, set broken bones and even knew about medicines. Some medicines the Ancient Egyptians used are honey and breast milk or gazelle's milk. Not only did they have medicinal values, they also are believed to have been used to ward off evil spirits and demons. The easiest way to see how good they were at medicine is to look at mummies, because it shows that the doctors could remove organs without ruining the body. Because of this, also, we know that Egyptians knew a lot about how the human body is laid out.

 Engineering was a very specialised art in Egypt. Engineers were able to survey, or find the area between two points, make very complicated structures called pyramids that were nearly perfect geometrically, create cement, and make large irrigation networks. There is even the belief that Ancient Egyptians created a kind of battery.

Science was also very important. Some believe that the beginning of the modern scientific method can be found in Egypt. Mathematics were also in use in Egypt, and the golden ratio was even used in the construction of the Pyramids.

Another famous ability of the Egyptians was glassmaking. Archaeologists have found many pieces of beads, jars, figures and ornaments in tombs across the nation. In 2005, there was even the discovery of an ancient glassmaking factory.

<TITLE>ABBA</TITLE>
ABBA was a Swedish pop music group, who had many hits in the 1970s and early 1980s. The name "ABBA" is made from the first letter of each member's first name:

ABBA became very popular after they won the Eurovision Song Contest in 1974. They had many hits. These included "Dancing Queen", "SOS", "Mamma Mia", and "Waterloo". Most of their songs were written by Ulvaeus and Andersson.

They broke up in 1982, but their music is still popular. It has appeared in movies and the musical Mamma Mia!.

<TITLE>Anna Kournikova</TITLE>
Anna Sergeevna Kournikova is a Russian model and retired professional tennis player. She has won two Grand Slam doubles tournaments, both with Swiss player Martina Hingis. In 1999, the Women's Tennis Association said she was the best doubles player in the world. She has also played tennis for Russia in an international competition called the Fed Cup.

Kournikova played in her last Grand Slam tournament in 2009. Since then she has modeled clothes and played in exhibition tennis matches. Although she was born in Russia, she lives in Miami, Florida in the United States. She has appeared in several advertisements mainly about tennis. As of July 2008, her boyfriend is Spanish singer Enrique Iglesias.

 Kournikova was born in Moscow in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics since 1981. Her mother is called Alla and her father is called Sergei. She first picked up a tennis racket when she was five years old and joined the Spartak Tennis Club. She improved very much and when she was 10 years old she moved to Florida to train at an academy.

In 2000, it was reported that she was going to marry Russian NHL player Pavel Bure. Another Russian ice hockey player, Sergei Fedorov, who played for the Detroit Red Wings said that he had married Kournikova in 2001, but they divorced later that year. In 2002, she was in a music video with Enrique Iglesias for his song Escape. She was Iglesias's girlfriend after this video, but said later that she did not want to get married. Iglesias said she kept saying no when he would ask marry him. He said "I always try, but she doesn't want to." Kournikova has said that she is not interested in getting married: "I'm never getting married. Everything is good."

In 2002, she was the second most popular athlete searched for on Google, and was voted the "Sexiest Woman In The World" by FHM readers. However, some experts working for ESPN voted her the 18th biggest sports failure from 1979 to 2004.

It is thought Kournikova has been paid about £50 million in her career as of 2007, but most of this did not come from tennis. She said "You cannot just be a great tennis player or just be a beautiful person to succeed in the game any more. You have to have it all: the talent, the looks, the brains and the drive."

 Kournikova holds her racket in her right hand but uses both hands when she play backhand shots. She is a good player at the net. She has several different types of shots, some of which are her hard shots from the back of the court and drop shots which land just over the net.

Kournikova became a professional tennis player in October of 1995 when she was 14-years-old. In 1996, the WTA gave her a prize for being the best new player in the world. She won the first of her 16 WTA tour doubles titles in September of 1998 in Tokyo, in Japan. Her partner for the victory was American player Monica Seles. After this, Kournikova will often play her doubles matches with Swiss player Martina Hingis. She finished the year in the top 20 women tennis players in the world. In 1999, the pair won five doubles tournaments, one of which was the Australian Open, and they came second in the French Open. That year, the WTA gave them an award for being the best doubles pair in the world. Kournikova won six doubles tournaments in 2000, four of them with Hingis.

In 2001, Kournikova suffered an injury to her foot which meant she was unable to play in many tournaments that year. She got better and won the doubles tournament at the Australian Open in 2002, again with Hingis. Other injuries like a bad back meant that in 2003, Kornikova played very few tournaments and said "I do not want to go on playing unless I can participate 100%".

Kournikova also played tennis for Russia in the Fed Cup. She played both singles and doubles and won 12 out of 19 matches between 1996 and 2000.

The following table shows how far Kournikova progess in each of the Grand Slam singles tournaments she has played in.

 Kournikova won two doubles tournaments. She won the 1999 Australian Open with Swiss player Martina Hingis when they defeated Lindsay Davenport and Natasha Zvereva. Kournikova and Hingis won the 2002 Australian Open, when they defeated Daniela Hantuchová and Arantxa Sánchez Vicario. They were also runners-up in the 1999 French Open where they lost to American pair Venus and Serena Williams. At the end of 1999, Kournikova was the best doubles player in the world.

Kournikova has also played mixed doubles. She was runner-up with Swede Jonas Björkman in 1999 at the Wimbledon Championships. She also finished runner-up with Max Mirnyi from Belarus in the 2000 US Open.

The following table is a summary of the Women's Tennis Association and Grand Slam tournaments won by Kournikova.

 Kournikova began to be a model while she was still playing tennis. When she lost in the first round at Wimbledon in 2002, she had an interview with a reporter from the BBC. The reporter suggested that her modeling was making her concentrate less on tennis. This upset her and she nearly walked out of the interview. She said she was "100% committed to tennis".

Kournikova endorsement a video game called "Anna Kournikova's Smash Court Tennis" for the Sony PlayStation in 1999. She was also sponsored by sportswear manufacturer Adidas and sports bra manufacturer Berlei. She made more than ten times as much money from her sponsors than from playing tennis that year. She made a £7 million agreement to be in an advertising campaign for internet company Lycos. In 2002, Adidas said they were worried she was not concentrating on tennis enough. 

As of July 2008, she is sponsored by sportswear manufacturer K-Swiss.

<TITLE>Agnosticism</TITLE>
Agnosticism is a type of philosophical view about the existence of a God, or gods. Some people who call themselves "agnostics" say that it is not possible to know if there is, or is not, a God/gods in the universe. Other agnostics, though, say only that they themselves currently do not know if there is a God/gods. In fact, there are many different kinds of agnosticism:

People often have difficulty telling agnosticism and atheism apart. Atheists don't have a belief in the existence of deities, and some claim to be quite sure that no deity exists. Some atheists though state that it is up to theists or those who believe in a deity to give the evidence for a god or to show why someone should believe in a god. They state that without evidence there is no reason to believe in a god. Agnostics say they do not know if any deities exist, but some believe a deity does exist anyway. Some people are both atheist and agnostic--they reject belief in deities without claiming to know that deities do not exist.

<TITLE>Argon</TITLE>
Argon is a chemical element. The symbol for argon is Ar, and its atomic number is 18. It is a noble gas and no electrons or protons can be lost or gained from this atom.

Argon atoms are found in air. About 1% of the Earth's atmosphere is argon.

<TITLE>Arsenic</TITLE>
Arsenic is chemical element 33 on the periodic table. Its symbol is As.

Arsenic is an element that is known as a metalloid. It can act like a metal and a nonmetal at different times. It does not conduct electricity very well , but it is a semiconductor. This means that arsenic can be used in computers to make them faster.

Most people know about arsenic because it is dangerous. Arsenic is toxic and can kill a person if they get too much of it. This really only happens when a person gets poisoned because there is not enough of it in our food to actually hurt us. Sometimes there is too much arsenic in water, and the government tries to make sure that it is removed before people drink the water. Even so, some people believe that we need an extremely small amount of arsenic to make sure that our body works right. We get all of the arsenic that we might need from our food. 

<TITLE>Antimony</TITLE>
Antimony is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Sb. The symbol Sb is from the Latin name for the element of 'stibium.' The meaning of stibium is "mark." It has the atomic number 51. It is a metalloid. Antimony has four allotropes. The stable allotrope of antimony is a blue-white metal. Yellow and black antimony are unstable non-metals.

Antimony is used in flame-proofing, paints, ceramics, enamels, many different alloys, electronics and rubber.

<TITLE>Actinium</TITLE>
Actinium is chemical element 89 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Ac. Actinium's mass is 227 g/mol. 

Actinium is a silver radioactivesolid metal. It is so radioactive that it glows in the dark. Even a small amount of actinium is dangerous to people.

Actinium was discovered in 1899 by André-Louis Debierne, a French chemist.

<TITLE>Americium</TITLE>
Americium is a chemical element. It is a radioactive metal. It has the chemical symbol Am. It has the atomic number 95. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the actinides. Americium is a transuranic element. It is a radioactive element that does not exist in nature. Americium has to be made. It has a silver color. Americium is made by bombarding a plutonium target with neutrons. Americium is named after America, 

It was the fourth transuranic element to be discovered. It was named for the Americas, like europium was named for Europe.

Americium is used in most smoke detectors. The level of radioactivity is not enough to cause cancer, so it is safe to use.

<TITLE>Astatine</TITLE>
Astatine is a chemical element. Its atomic number is 85, and its atomic weight is 210. It is part of the Group 7 on the Periodic table of elements. Some of its isotopes may be in nature, but because it is extremely unstable, only about an ounce exists at one point in time. It is radioactive, the longest-living 210AT has a half-life of a bit over 8 hours.

<TITLE>Atom</TITLE>
An atom is a basic unit that makes up all matter. There are many different types of atom each with its own name, mass and size. These are called chemical elements, such as hydrogen or gold. Atoms are very small, the exact size changes depending on the element - they range from 0.1 to 0.5 nanometers. One nanometer is around a hundred times smaller than the width of a human hair. This makes atoms almost impossible to see. The manner in which they work, and how they interact with each other has to be investigated using equations. The field of physics that is concerned with this is called quantum physics. 

Atoms combine to make molecules or particles, for example two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom combine to make a water molecule, a form of a chemical reaction. Atoms themselves are made up of three kinds of smaller particles, called protons, neutrons and electrons, respectively. The protons and neutrons are in the middle of the atom. They are called the nucleus. The nucleus is surrounded by a cloud of electrons with a negative charge which are bound to nucleus by an electromagnetic force. Protons and neutrons are made up of even smaller particles called quarks. Electrons are elementary or fundamental particles; they cannot be split into smaller parts. The number of protons, neutrons and electrons an atom has determines what element it is. Hydrogen, for example, has one proton, no neutrons and one electron; the element Sulfur has 16 protons, 16 neutrons and 16 electrons.

Atoms move faster when in gas form than liquid and solid matter. In solid materials the atoms are tightly next to each other so they vibrate, not are not able to move unlike liquid does.

 The word "atom" comes from the Greek ἀτόμος, indivisible, from ἀ-, not, and τόμος, a cut. The first historical mention of the word atom came from works by the Greek philosopher Democritus, around 400BC. Atomic theory stayed as a mostly philosophical subject, with not much actual scientific investigation or study, until the development of chemistry in the 1600's. In 1777 French chemist Antoine Lavoisier defined the term element for the first time. He said that an element was any basic substance that could not be broken down into other substances by the methods of chemistry. Any substance that could be broken down was a compound.

In 1803 English philosopher John Dalton suggested that elements were tiny, solid spheres made of atoms. Dalton believed that all atoms of the same element have the same mass. He said that compounds are formed when atoms of more than one element combine. According to Dalton, in a compound, atoms of different elements always combine the same way.

In 1827 British scientist Robert Brown looked at pollen grains in water and used Dalton's atomic theory to describe patterns in the way they moved. This was called Brownian Motion. In 1905 Albert Einstein used mathematics to prove that the seemingly random movements were down to the reactions of atoms, and by doing so he conclusively proved the existence of the atom. In 1869 scientist Dmitri Mendeleev published the first version of the periodic table. The periodic table groups atoms by their atomic number . Elements in the same column, or period, usually have similar properties. For example Helium, Neon, Argon, Krypton and Xenon are all in the same column and have very similar properties. All these elements are gases that have no colour and no smell. Together they are known as the noble gases.

The physicist J.J. Thomson was the first man to discover electrons, while he was working with cathode rays in 1897. He realized they had a negative charge, unlike protons and neutrons . Thomson created the plum pudding model, which stated that an atom was like plum pudding: the dried fruit were stuck in a mass of pudding . In 1909 a scientist named Ernest Rutherford used the Rutherford Experiment to prove that electrons are very small compared to protons and neutrons. Rutherford took a photo plate and surrounded it with gold foil, and then shot alpha particles at it. Many of the particles went through the gold foil, which proved that atoms are mostly empty space. Electrons are so small they make up only 1% of an atoms mass. 

In 1913, Niels Bohr introduced the Bohr model. This model showed that electrons orbit the nucleus in fixed circular orbits. This was more accurate than the Rutherford model. However, it was still not completely right. Improvements to the Bohr model have been made since it was first introduced.

In 1925 chemist Frederick Soddy found that some elements in the periodic table had more than one kind of atom. For example an atom with 2 protons should be a Helium atom. However some Helium atoms have three neutrons as well. This means they are still Helium, as the element is defined by the number of Protons, but they are not normal Helium either. Soddy called an atom like this, with a different number of neutrons, an isotope. To get the name of the isotope we look at how many neutrons it has and add this to the name of the element. So a Helium atom with three neutrons is called Helium-3, and a Carbon atom with twelve neutrons instead of six is called Carbon-12. However when he developed his theory Soddy could not be certain neutrons actually existed. To prove they were real physicist James Chadwick and a team of others created the mass spectrometer. The mass spectrometer actually measures the mass and weight of individual atoms. By doing this Chadwick proved that to account for all the weight of the Atom, neutrons must exist. 

In 1937 German chemist Otto Hahn became the first person to create nuclear fission in a laboratory. He discovered this by chance when he was shooting neutrons at a Uranium atom, hoping to create a new isotope. However he noticed that instead of a new isotope the Uranium simply changed into a Barium atom. This was the worlds first recorded nuclear fission reaction. This discovery eventually led to the creation of the atomic bomb. Further into the 20th century physicists went deeper into the mysteries of the atom. Using particle accelerators they discovered that protons and neutrons were actually made of other particles, called quarks.

The most accurate model so far comes from the Schrödinger equation. Schrödinger realized that the electrons exist in a cloud around the nucleus, called the electron cloud. In the electron cloud, it is impossible to know exactly where electrons are. The Schrödinger equation is used to find out where an electron is likely to be found. This area is called the electron's orbital.

The atom is made up of thee main particles; the proton, the neutron and the electron. The isotope of Hydrogen Hydrogen-1 has no neutrons, and a positive hydrogen ion has no electrons. These are the only known exceptions, all other atoms have at least one proton, neutron and electron each. 

Electrons are by far the smallest of the three, their mass and size is too small to be measured using current technology. They have a negative charge. Protons and neutrons are similar sizes Protons are positively charged and neutrons have no charge. Most atoms have a neutral charge; because the number of protons and electrons are the same, the charges balance out to zero. However in ions this is not always the case and they can have a positive or a negative charge. Protons and Neutrons are made out of quarks, of two types; up quarks and down quarks. A proton is made of two up quarks and one down quark and a neutron is made of two down quarks and one up quark.

 The nucleus is in the middle of an atom. It is made up of protons and neutrons. Usually in nature two things with the same charge repel or shoot away from each other. So for a long time it was a mystery to scientists how the positively charged protons in the nucleus stayed together. They solved this by finding a particle called a Gluon. It's name comes from the word glue as Gluons act like atomic glue, sticking the protons together using the strong nuclear force. It is this force which also holds the quarks together that make up the protons and neutrons.

The number of neutrons in relation to protons defines whether the nucleus is stable or goes through radioactive decay. When there are too many neutrons or protons, the atom tries to make the numbers the same by getting rid of the excess particles. It does by emitting radiation in the form of alpha, beta or gamma decay. Nuclei can change through other means too. Nuclear fission is when the Nucleus splits into two smaller nuclei, releasing a lot of stored energy. This release energy is what makes nuclear fission useful for making bombs and electricity, in the form of nuclear power. The other way nuclei can change is through nuclear fusion, when two nuclei join together, or fuse, to make a heavier nucleus. This process requires extreme amounts of energy in order to overcome the electrostatic repulsion between the protons, as they have the same charge. Such high energies are most commonly found in stars like our Sun, which fuses Hydrodgen for fuel.

Electrons orbit or go around the nucleus. They are called the atom's electron cloud. They are attracted towards the nucleus because of the electromagnetic force. Electrons have a negative charge and the nucleus always has a positive charge, so they attract each other. Around the nucleus some electrons are further out than others. These are called electron shells. In most atoms the first shell has two electrons, and all after that have eight. Exceptions are rare, but they do happen and are difficult to predict. The further away the electron is from the nucleus, the weaker the pull of the nucleus on it. This is why bigger atoms, with more electrons, react more easily with other atoms. The electromagnetism of the nucleus is not enough to hold onto their electrons and they lose them to the strong attraction of smaller atoms 

Some elements, and many isotopes, have what is called an unstable nucleus. This means the nucleus is either too big to hold itself together or has too many protons, electrons or neutrons. When this happens the nucleus has to get rid of the excess mass or particles. It does this through radiation. An atom that does this can be called radioactive. Unstable atoms continue to be radioactive until they lose enough mass/parfticles that they become stable. All atoms above atomic number 82 are radioactive.

There are three main types of radioactive decay; alpha, beta and gamma.

Every radioactive element or isotope has something called a half life. This is how long it takes half of any sample of atoms of that type to decay until they become a different stable isotope or element. Large atoms, or isotopes with a big difference between the number of protons and neutrons will therefore have a long half life.

<TITLE>Aluminium</TITLE>
Aluminium is a chemical element. The symbol for aluminium is Al, and its atomic number is 13. Aluminium is the most abundant metal.

Aluminium is a very good conductor of electricity and heat. It is light and strong. It can be hammered into sheets or pulled out into wires . It is corrosion resistant.

Aluminium has many uses. Much of it is used in overhead power cables. It is also widely used in window frames and aircraft bodies. It is found at home as saucepans, soft drink cans, and cooking foil. Aluminium is also used to coat car headlamps and compact discs.

Aluminium was once considered a precious metal that was even more valuable than gold. This is no longer true because, as technology improved, it became cheaper and easier to make pure aluminium.

Pure aluminium is made from bauxite, a kind of rock that has aluminium and many impurities. The impurities are removed with chemicals and electricity, to leave behind pure aluminium. The aluminium is then melted and poured into containers for storage until it is ready for use.

Pure aluminium is very soft, so a harder metal is almost always added. The harder metal is usually copper. Copper/aluminium alloys are used for ship building purposes, because the aluminium prevents corrosion, and the copper prevents barnacles.

Aluminium prevents corrosion by forming a small, thin layer of aluminium oxide on its surface. This layer protects the metal by preventing oxygen from reaching it. Corrosion can not occur without oxygen.

<TITLE>Anglican Communion</TITLE>
The Anglican Communion is an association of all Anglican churches in full communion with the Church of England. There is no single "Anglican Church" with universal authority, because each national or regional church has full autonomy. With over seventy seven million members, the Anglican Communion is the third largest communion in the world, after the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Churches.

The status of full communion means that all rites conducted in one church are recognised by the other. Some of these churches are known as Anglican, explicitly recognising the link to England . 

The Archbishop of Canterbury, religious head of the Church of England, has no formal authority outside that jurisdiction, but is recognised as symbolic head of the worldwide communion. 

 All thirty-eight provinces of the Anglican Communion are independent, each with its own primate and governing structure. These provinces may take the form of national churches or a collection of nations . They are, in alphabetical order:

In addition, there are six extraprovincial churches, five of which are under the metropolitical authority of the Archbishop of Canterbury.

<TITLE>Archipelago</TITLE>
An archipelago is a chain or group of islands. The word archipelago means "chief sea", from Greek arkhon and pelagos .

 Archipelagos are usually found in the open sea; less commonly, a big land mass may neighbor them, an example being Scotland which has more than 700 islands surrounding the mainland. Archipelagoes are often volcanic, forming along mid-ocean ridges or hotspots, but there are many other processes involved in their construction, including erosion, deposition, and land elevation.

The four biggest countries that are mainly archipelagos are Japan, the Philippines, the United Kingdom and Indonesia .

The biggest archipelago in the world by size is in Northern Canada, the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, which is in the Arctic Ocean.

<TITLE>Author</TITLE>
An author is a person who writes a book, story, poem, or other written work. Their writing can be truth or fiction, short or long. Often, author is a word for a person whose job is to write. 

Sometimes, a person who creates something but is not a writer is called an author. Someone who writes music may be called the author of that piece of music, though we would usually call that person a composer. The French word for author, Auteur, is another name for the director of a movie. 

In biology, the first person to write an article that gives a name to and describes a type of living thing is the author of that name. 

<TITLE>Anxiety</TITLE>
Anxiety is an unpleasant emotional state. It can include fear. Very often, people with anxiety also feel worries. There can also be physical symptoms, like having a headache or an upset stomach.

Some people have a lot of anxiety that controls them. This can be treated by therapy and medicine.

<TITLE>Addiction</TITLE>
Addiction is when the body or mind badly wants or needs something in order to work right. When you have addiction to something it is called being addicted or being an addict. People can be addicted to drugs, cigarettes, alcohol, caffeine, and many other things. 

When somebody is addicted to something, they can become sick if they do not get the thing they are addicted to. But taking more of the thing they are addicted to can also hurt their health. Some people who are addicts need to go to a doctor or hospital to cure the addiction, so they no longer crave the drug.

People can also be addicted to other things which are not drugs. You may hear people talk about being "addicted to the Internet" or "addicted to chocolate."

<TITLE>Axiom</TITLE>
An Axiom is a statement of logic, that is not proved within inside the discussion of a problem. 

Logic can be used to deduce other theorems from the axioms.

 Euclid of Alexandria was a Greek mathematician. Around the year 300BC, he made a list of axioms:

<TITLE>Alpha (letter)</TITLE>
Alpha , is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to stand for the "a" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 1. Letters that came from it are the Roman A and Cyrillic А.

Alpha is often used in physics and chemistry as a symbol or in the names of things, for example alpha particles . The symbol is also used a lot in mathematics in algebra, for example naming angles.

<TITLE>Antigua and Barbuda</TITLE>
Antigua and Barbuda is an island nation located in the eastern Caribbean Sea on the boundary with the Atlantic Ocean. Antigua and Barbuda are part of the Lesser Antilles archipelago.

<TITLE>Azincourt</TITLE>
Azincourt is a commune. It is found in the region Nord-Pas-de-Calais in the Pas-de-Calais department in the north of France.

<TITLE>Albert Speer</TITLE>
Albert Speer was a German architect. He was the inspector for constitution. In 1942, he became the minister for munitions and armaments. He was also a member of Hitler's Cabinet.

<TITLE>Alliaceae</TITLE>
Alliaceae is a family of herbaceous perennial flowering plants. They are part of order Asparagales. 

<TITLE>Asteraceae</TITLE>
The family Asteraceae or Compositae is the largest family of flowering plants, in terms of number of species.

<TITLE>Apiaceae</TITLE>
The Apiaceae or Umbelliferae is a family of usually aromatic plants with hollow stems, commonly known as umbellifers. It includes cumin, parsley, carrot, coriander/cilantro, dill, caraway, fennel, parsnip, celery, Queen Anne's Lace and other relatives. It is a large family with about 300 genera and more than 3,000 species.

<TITLE>Axon</TITLE>
The Axon is the part of a neuron that branches off the main body . The axon carries an electrical signal from the soma to the synapse, where it passes the signal to other neurons or to muscle fibers. The axon may be over a meter long in humans, and even longer in bigger animals, like elephants and whales. 

The electrical signal of an axon is made by ions that flow in and out of the cell in a chain reaction called an action potential. These signals always flow from the soma to the synapse in normal neurons. The speed at which the signal travels depends on how thick the axon is, and how much insulation it has. Insulation is provided by specialized cells called myelin that wrap around the axon.

<TITLE>Ada Lovelace</TITLE>
Augusta Ada King, Countess of Lovelace , born Augusta Ada Byron, was an English writer who became the world's first computer programmer. She wrote the program for Charles Babbage's mechanical computer, the analytical engine. She wrote the first algorithm that was meant to be processed by a machine.

She was the only legitimate child of the poet Lord Byron and Anne Isabella Milbanke. She had no relationship with her father, who died when she was nine. As a young adult she took an interest in mathematics, and in particular Babbage's work on the analytical engine. Between 1842 and 1843 she translated an article by Italian mathematician Luigi Menabrea on the engine. She added her own notes on the engine. These notes contain what is considered the first computer program, that is, an algorithm encoded for processing by a machine. Though Babbage's engine was never built, Lovelace's notes are important in the early history of computers. She realized that computers would be able to do more than just calculating or number-crunching. Others, including Babbage himself, worked only on the possibilities of calculating. 

<TITLE>Alps</TITLE>
The Alps are one of the great mountain range systems of Europe. It reaches from Austria and Slovenia in the east; through Italy, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany; to France in the west.

The highest mountain in the Alps is Mont Blanc, at 4808 m, on the Italian–French border.

The English name Alps was taken from French from Latin Alpes, which may be ultimately alike with Latin albus . The German Albe, Alpe or Alp , and the French Alpage or Alpe in the singular mean "alpine pasture", and only in the plural may also refer to the mountain range as a whole.

The Alps stretch from Austria and Slovenia in the east, through Italy, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany to France in the west.

The highest mountain in the Alps is the Mont Blanc , on the French-Italian border.

They are divided into Subdivisions. The mountains are divided into the Western Alps and the Eastern Alps. The division is along the line between Lake Constance and Lake Como, following the Rhine. The Western Alps are higher, but their central chain is shorter and curved; they are located in Italy, France and Switzerland. The Eastern Alps belong to Austria, Germany, Italy, Liechtenstein, Slovenia and Switzerland. The highest peaks of the Western Alps are Mont Blanc, 4,808 metres , Mont Blanc de Courmayeur 4,748 metres , the Dufourspitze 4,634 metres and the other summits of the Monte Rosa group, and the Dom, 4,545 metres . The highest peak in the Eastern Alps is Piz Bernina, 4,049 metres . Perhaps the most famous location for tourist to the Alps are the Swiss Alps.

The main chain of the Alps follows the watershed from the Mediterranean Sea to the Wienerwald. It then passes over many of the highest and most famous peaks in the Alps. From the Colle di Cadibona to Col de Tende it runs to the west before turning to the northwest and then, to the north, near the Colle della Maddalena. Upon reaching the Swiss border, the line of the main chain goes about northeast, a heading it follows until its end near Vienna.

 The Alps do not make an impassable block; they have been traveled by for war and commerce, and later by pilgrims, students and tourists. Crossing places by road, train or foot are called passes. These are depressions in the mountains into which a valley leads from the plains and hilly pre-mountainous places.

 The Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme has defined a list of 82 "official" Alpine 4,000-meter peaks. The list has many sub-peaks with little prominence, but good for mountaineering. Here are the twelve four-thousanders with at least 1 km prominence.

Karl Blodig was the first person to climb all the main four-thousand meter peaks, in about 1900.

The Alps make a part of a Tertiary orogenic belt of mountain chains, called the Alpide belt. It reaches through southern Europe and Asia from the Atlantic Ocean all the way to the Himalayas. This belt of mountain chains was made during the Alpine orogeny. A gap in these mountain chains in central Europe separates the Alps from the Carpathians off to the east. Orogeny took place a lot and tectonic subsidence is to blame for the gaps in between.

The Alps came up as a result of the collision of the African and European tectonic plates, in which the western part of the Tethys Ocean, which was in between these continents, disappeared. Big stress came out on sediments of the Tethys Ocean basin and its Mesozoic and early Cenozoic strata were pushed against the stable Eurasian landmass by the northward-moving African landmass. Most of this happened during the Oligocene and Miocene time. The pressure made great lying down folds, or nappes, that came out of what had become the Tethys Sea and pushed northward. This often broke and slid one over the other to make big thrust faults. Crystalline basement rocks, which are exposed in the higher central regions, are the rocks making Mont Blanc, the Matterhorn, and high peaks in the Pennine Alps and Hohe Tauern.

The formation of the Mediterranean Sea is a more new development, and does not show the northern shore of the African landmass.

The Alps are popular both in summer and in winter. The Alps as a place for sightseeing and sports. Winter sports can be learned in most regions from December to April. In summer, the Alps are popular with hikers, mountain bikers, paragliders, and mountaineers. There are also alpine lakes which attract swimmers, sailors and surfers. The lower places and bigger towns of the Alps are well served by motorways and main roads, but higher passes and by-roads can be bad even in the summer. Many passes are closed in winter. Many airports around the Alps , as well as long-distance rail links from all bordering countries, afford large numbers of travelers easy access from abroad. The Alps normally has more than 100 million visitors a year.

 A natural vegetation limit with altitude is given because of the temporary trees—oak, beech, ash and sycamore maple. These do not reach to the same height. They are also hard to find growing together. But their upper limit complements similar enough to the change from a temperate to a colder climate that is further shown true by a change in the wild flowering plant life. This limit normally lies about 1200 m above the sea on the north side of the Alps. On the southern slopes, it often reaches to 1500 m, sometimes even to 1700 m.

The Alps are not always marked by the presence of the typical trees. Humans have almost killed them in many places. Plus, except for the beech forests of the Austrian Alps, forests of temporary trees are hardly found. In many places where such woods once were there, they have been taken over by the Scots pine and Norway spruce. These trees are less sensitive to the attacks of goats who are the worst enemies of such trees.

Above the forestry, there is often a band of short pine trees , which is in turn taking place of dwarf shrubs. These shrubs mostly being Rhododendron ferrugineum or Rhododendron hirsutum . Above this is the alpine meadow. Above the alpine meadow is where plant life becomes less and less common. At these higher heights, the plants are likely to make set apart groups. In the Alps, many species of flowering plants have been recorded above 4000 m. These are like Ranunculus glacialis, Androsace alpina and Saxifraga biflora.

 Species common to the Alps. 

<TITLE>Albert Camus</TITLE>
Albert Camus was a French philosopher and writer. Camus wrote novels and plays. Camus was born in Algeria, a country in the North part of Africa. He had French parents. Many people think that Camus is an existentialist philosopher. Existentialism is a philosophy that is very different from other ways of thinking. Camus won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1957.

 Albert Camus was born in Algeria to a poor working class family. His mother was Spanish and his father was french. His father died in battle and he was left to live with his grandmother. WHen he was 17 he was diagnosed with tuberculosis, which was very impactful on him at that point in his life. It limited him greatly in his athletics as well as in his career opportunities, due to the fact that tuberculosis is quite contagious. For this reason he claimed that his disease “set him free” because he would have done something else with his life had he seen the opportunity. He went to the University of Algiers, where he graduated with a degree in 1935. In the 1930s, Camus became interested in politics. In 1935, Camus joined the French Communist Party, a political group. In the late 1930s, Camus was a writer for the socialist newspaper, the Alger-Republicain.

 In 1941, Camus wrote his first novel, which was called The Stranger. During World War II, Camus joined the French Resistance to fight against the Nazi army. After World War II, Camus became friends with another writer called Jean-Paul Sartre. Camus and Sartre often talked about philosophy and politics in small restaurants called cafés.

 Camus wrote books about philosophy which said that life was "absurd" . In the 1950s Camus tried to improve human rights. In 1960, Camus died in a car crash. He had two children, Catherine and Jean.

<TITLE>Agatha Christie</TITLE>
Agatha Christie was an English writer of crime stories. 

She was born in Torquay and was married two times, she had one child called Rosalind Hicks. 

Agatha Christie worked in a hospital and in a pharmacy in World War I. 

Her books are very famous all over the world, and she sold a lot of books. Her stories are about murders and finding out who did them. The most well-known characters in her books are Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot. Miss Marple is an old lady, and she talks to everyone. She uses logic to find out who is guilty of the murder. Hercule Poirot is a private detective from Belgium who lives in London. He likes to find out who did the murder by thinking about all the evidence.

She also wrote romance novels and theatre plays. They were very successful too.

In 1971, she was honoured by the Queen with the title Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire.

<TITLE>Absolute value</TITLE>
In mathematics, the absolute value of a numberis the number without the sign. The absolute value of 2 is 2, the absolute value of -2 is also 2. 

<TITLE>Analog signal</TITLE>
An analog or analogue signal is any signal. 

The difference from a digital signal is that also very small fluctuations in the signal are meaningful. When one speaks of analog one often means an electrical context, however mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, and other systems may also convey analog signals.

An analog signal uses some property of the medium to convey the signal's information. Any information may be conveyed by an analog signal, often such a signal is a measured change in physical phenomena, such as sound, light, temperature, position, or pressure.

For example, in sound recording, fluctuations in air pressure strike the diaphragm of a microphone which causes corresponding fluctuations in a voltage or the current in an electric circuit. The voltage or the current is said to be an "analog" of the sound.

See digital for a discussion of digital vs. analog.

<TITLE>April</TITLE>
April is the fourth month of the year with 30 days. The name April comes from that Latin word aperire which means "to open". This probably refers to growing plants in spring. April begins on the same day of week as July in all years and also January in leap years.

April's flower is the Sweet Pea and its birthstone is the Diamond. The meaning of the Diamond is Innocence.

 Poets use April to mean the end of winter. For example: April showers bring May flowers.

<TITLE>August</TITLE>
August is the eighth month of the year. It has 31 days. 

This month was first called Sextilis in Latin, because it was the sixth month in the old Roman calendar. The Roman calendar began in March about 735 BC with Romulus. It was the eighth month when January or February were added to the start of the year by King Numa Pompilius about 700 BC. Or, when those two months were moved from the end to the beginning of the year by the decemvirs about 450 BC .

August is named for Augustus Caesar. The month has 31 days because the Roman senate wanted as many days as Julius Caesar's month July. Augustus is in summer, after July and before September.

An extra month was moved from February in order to make the month of August seem more important. This was undone when the leap year adjustment was made. 

August's flower is the Gladioli with the birthstone being Peridot. 

<TITLE>Aaron</TITLE>
Aaron is a biblical figure. He was the older brother of Moses. He helped Moses lead the Hebrews out of Egypt. In the Bible, he appeared very much in Exodus.

 Aaron spoke for Moses, when he went to tell Pharaoh the King of Egypt everything God wanted Moses to say. The Lord said to Moses, "See, I have amde you like God to Pharaoh, and your brother Aaron will be your prophet. You are to say everything I command you, and your brother Aaron is to tell Pharaoh to let the Israelites go out of his country...".

 Aaron's staff was used by the LORD a few times when trying to persuade the Pharaoh to let the Israelites go. The LORD ordered Moses and Aaron, "When Pharaoh says to you, 'Perform a miracle,' then say to Aaron, Take your staff and throw it down before Pharaoh', and it will become a snake." So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and Aaron did so. Aaron's staff, according to the Bible, really became a snake and ate up all the other snakes that the Pharaoh's magicians had made. Also, Aaron's staff was used to make the Nile River all turn into blood. He "stretched it out", and the fish in the Nile died, and the river smelled; and the Egyptians could not drink the water, as it was recorded in the Bible.

<TITLE>Alcohol</TITLE>
In chemistry, alcohol is a general term which refers to many organic compounds used in industry and science as reagents, solvents, and fuels. Alcohols are carbohydrates which are made of an alkyl group with one or more hydroxyl groups bound to its carbon atoms. Alcohol is colorless, and also transparent. 

 There are two ways of naming alcohols: Common names, and IUPAC names. 

 The hydroxyl group makes alcohols polar. Alcohols are very weakly acidic.

In common usage, "alcohol" often means ethanol or "grain alcohol". .

<TITLE>Allen Ginsberg</TITLE>
Irwin Allen Ginsberg was an American poet and author, who was part of the Beat Generation movement of poets in the 1950s. He was a friend of writers Jack Kerouac and William S. Burroughs, and later made friends with musicians Bob Dylan, Donovan, John Lennon and Yoko Ono, and many other celebrities.

Ginsberg's most famous work was called Howl, and was a long poem about the social conditions of the United States in the 1950s. It began with the words "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness." It went on to describe the frustration felt by many Americans, young people and in particular. There were problems in the country, such as prejudice and intolerance, that needed to be spoken about. Ginsberg the poem, and also performed it at public poetry readings.

A few people didn't like Howl, or the graphic language Ginsberg used. They tried to have Howl , and Ginsberg prosecute . Ginsberg went to trial, and the judge decided Howl was an important work, and told the truth about America at the time. The judge rejected the ban and cleared Ginsberg, who could then continue to publish and perform the poem.

Ginsberg became involved in social causes through his work, and through the famous people he met. He grew up in the Jewish faith, but later became a Buddhist. He was a homosexual, and his longtime partner was another poet, Peter Orlovsky. He also had a long relationship with Neal Cassady, who appeared as "N.C., secret hero of these poems" in Howl. Ginsberg died in 1997 of liver cancer.

<TITLE>Anatoly Karpov</TITLE>
Anatoly Karpov is a Soviet and Russian chess grandmaster and former World Champion. He was official world champion from 1975 to 1985, played three more matches for the title from 1986 to 1990, then was FIDE World Champion from 1993 to 1999. 

His tournament successes include over 160 first-place finishes. He had a peak Elo rating of 2780, and his 90 months at world number one are second only to the record of Garry Kasparov. 

Since 2005, he has been a member of the Public Chamber of Russia. He has recently involved himself in several humanitarian causes, such as advocating the use of iodised salt.

<TITLE>Auto racing</TITLE>
Auto racing is a sport involving racing automobiles. Auto racing began in France in 1895 and is now one of the world's most popular spectator sports.

<TITLE>Anarcho-capitalism</TITLE>
Anarcho-capitalism is a libertarian and anarchist philosophy that is against the idea of political government, and for economic government through free market capitalism with supply and demand.

Anarcho-capitalists think that people can protect themselves without any government. Instead of putting a stop to intrusion with more laws, people could protect their own things, or agree to pay other people such as arbitrators, insurers, and private defenders to protect them through the marketplace. Anarcho-capitalists say that the government is a thief, because it takes taxes away from people against their will, and keeps them from making agreements between themselves.

<TITLE>Aristophanes</TITLE>
Aristophanes was a Greek writer who wrote 40 plays. However, only 11 of his plays survive in their entirety. He is famous for writing comedies , and even today his plays make people laugh.

Many of the jokes in his plays relate to sex. For example, Lysistrata is about a group of women who protest a war by not having sexual intercourse with their husbands until the war is ended.

Another well known play by Aristophanes is The Frogs.

<TITLE>Albert Schweitzer</TITLE>
Albert Schweitzer, M.D., O.M., was a theologian, musician, philosopher and physician. He was born in Alsace, at the time a part of the German Empire.

He wrote books about music and religion. He started a famous hospital in Lambarene, Africa. He received the 1952 Nobel Peace Prize.

 Albert Schweitzer was born in the Alsace, Germany on January 14, 1875. He lived in the village of Gunsbach, where his father was a local pastor. His father taught him how to play music. In 1893, Schweitzer passed his Baccalaureat.

After this, Schweitzer went to Paris to learn philosophy and music, before returning to his birthplace to study theology. He spent nine years studying medicine and surgery. He would dedicate his life to helping people and curing diseases.

 Schweitzer was a famous organist and was extremely interested in the music of Johann Sebastian Bach. He developed a simple style of performance, which he thought to be closer to what Bach had meant. In 1908, he completed the final version of his book "Johann Sebastian Bach". In the book, he argued for the new style, which has had great influence on the way Bach’s music is now treated. 

When Schweitzer was in Lambarene, his main recreation was to play Bach’s music. He also gave musical performances to raise money for medical supplies in Gabon.

Recordings of Schweitzer playing the music of Bach are available on CD. Between 1934 and 1935, he had a trial recording for HMV on the organ of the old Queen's Hall in London. In mid-December 1935, he began to record for Columbia Records on the organ of All-Hallows-by-the-Tower, Barking, London.

 Schweitzer became well-known for his books on Jesus and Christianity. He was not so much interested in the historical study of Jesus, as in the Christian idea of the end of the world, which can be found in the Bible and the teachings of Jesus. Schweitzer also served as a minister for Saint Nicholas Church in Strassburg.

In the philosophy of Albert Schweitzer, the most important idea is the respect for life. In his book "The Philosophy of Civilization", he wrote that "true philosophy" begins with the idea that: "I am a life that wants to live, in the midst of life that wants to live." Albert Schweitzer’s ethical principles meant that he tried to have a personal and spiritual relationship with the universe. It also meant that he was vegetarian.

 Albert Schweitzer spent most of his life in Lambarene, Africa. In 1904, he was inspired to help sick people in the world, so he studied medicine. After his medical studies in 1913, he went to Lambarene with his wife to establish a hospital that would serve thousands of Africans.

During World War I, the French made Schweitzer and his wife, both Germans, leave Africa. In 1924, he returned to Lambarene and managed to rebuild the destroyed hospital, where he served as a physician .

 From 1939-1948, he stayed in Lambarene since he could not go to Europe during the war. Three years later he resumed his medical practices. But he was no longer just a medical doctor and whenever possible he went to Europe to lecture at universities. Slowly his ideas become known, not only in Europe but worldwide. 

In 1952 Dr Albert Schweitzer was awarded The Nobel Peace Prize for peace. He gave a famous speech "The Problem of Peace". He died on September 4, 1965 at his hospital in Lambarene.

<TITLE>Aarhus</TITLE>
Aarhus is the second biggest city in Denmark.

It has about 300,000 inhabitants. the metropolitan area has almost 700.000 inhabitants

The settlement of Aarhus started about 770. Oldest documentation of Aarhus is from 951. It started as a trading place of the Vikings. In the 16th century, the city grew. Its second era of expansion was during the Industrial Revolution.

<TITLE>Amateur</TITLE>
The word amateur is normally used to mean: somebody who does something without being paid for it, or without having had training or education for it.

The opposite of an amateur is a professional. A professional is someone who has had formal training for something. He will expect to be paid a professional fee for the job.

The word “amateur” comes from a French word meaning: "lover of". An amateur is someone who does something because they enjoy doing it. They are not doing it in order to be paid. It is not how they earn money to live.

People often forget the real meaning of the word “amateur”. It is often used to mean: someone who is not good at something. Someone’s performance might be described as “amateurish”, i.e. not very good. On the other hand, they might be described as having done a very “professional” job, i.e. a very good job.

Although one might expect a professional to be better than an amateur, this is not always the case. Someone might be a very good amateur pianist, possibly better than some professionals.

In many sports , amateurs and professionals used not to be allowed to compete against one another. This was not always because amateurs were thought to be not as good as professionals. In some countries, such as Great Britain in Victorian times, this used to be because of social class distinction. Amateur cricketers were rich gentlemen from the upper classes who did not want to associate with people from lower classes. This attitude took a long time to change during the 20th century. Until the 1970s most Olympic events were for amateurs. Athletes were disqualified if they received money for the event.

Amateur boxing requires mandatory head & nose gear, unlike in professional kick boxing & boxing, the head is unprotected. 

In some jobs it would be impossible for amateurs to be allowed to work. One cannot have amateur doctors or lawyers. In some areas, however, amateurs can be very useful, e.g. in computer programming or astronomy or birdwatching. 

<TITLE>Alexis Carrel</TITLE>
Alexis Carrel was a French surgeon. He won the 1912 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, for his work on joining blood vessels and the transplantation of blood vessels and organs. 

<TITLE>Anatole France</TITLE>
Anatole France, born François-Anatole Thibault , was a French poet, critic, and novelist. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1921. He was a member of the Académie française. 

Anatole France was a son of a bookseller. He studied at the Collége Stanislas. He got married in 1877 but he get divorced in 1892. He was librarian for the French Senate in 1876 - 1890.

Anatole France start his career as a parnassianism poet. Later he became an impressionist and he was an atheist. From 1867 he was a journalist. In 1881 he became famous with the novel Le Crime de Sylvestre Bonnard, membre de l'Institut. It's about an old scholar Sylvester Bonnard, Bonnard wants to make good, but he commits a crime. This novel won France a prize from the French Academy. In 1893 he captured the atmosphere of the fin de siecle in Les Opinions de Jerome Coignard.

France took a part in the Dreyfus Affair. He signed Emile Zola's manifesto supporting Dreyfus. Alfred Dreyfus was a French artillery officer and he was charged with high treason. In 1901 France wrote Monsieur Bergeret about this affair. He stood out against colonialism.

In 1921 he was awarded the Nobel Prize. He died in 1924 and he is buried near Paris in the Neuilly-sur-Seine community cemetery.

<TITLE>Almond</TITLE>
The almond is a small tree in the family Rosaceae. The tree makes nuts or fruits that are also called almonds. Within the genus Prunus, it is classified in the subgenus Amygdalus. Amygdalus is told apart from other subgenera by the wavy seed shell. Botanically, the almond seed or fruit is not a true nut, but a drupe.

<TITLE>Antisemitism</TITLE>
Anti-Semitism is the hating of or prejudice against Jews. The word semite talks about a family of languages and its speakers, which include those of Jewish blood and those who speak Arabic. But, in this usage, it mostly used for Jews only. One of the biggest acts of anti-Semitism was during World War II. Adolf Hitler and the Nazi party killed almost 6 million Jews in an event known as the Holocaust.

<TITLE>Armed Forces of Armenia</TITLE>
The Armed Forces of the Republic of Armenia is the Army, Air Force, Air Defense, and Border Guard. Some parts were formed out of the former Soviet forces in the Armenian SSR. 

The Commander-in-Chief of the military is the President of Armenia, currently Robert Kocharyan. The Ministry of Defense is in charge of political leadership. It is currently headed by Mikael Harutyunyan. Military command is in the hands of the General Staff, headed by the Chief of Staff, who is Lieutenant-General Seyran Ohanyan. Armenia established a Ministry of Defense on 28 January 1992. The Border guards purpose is to patrol Armenia's borders with Georgia and Azerbaijan, while Russian troops continue to watch its borders with Iran and Turkey.

<TITLE>Avicenna</TITLE>
 ; c. 980 in Bukhara, Khorasan – 1037 in Hamedan, also known as Ibn Seena and commonly known in English by his Latinized name Avicenna , was a Persian Muslim polymath and the most important physician and Islamic philosopher of his time. He was also an astronomer, chemist, Hafiz, logician, mathematician, poet, psychologist, scientist, Sheikh, soldier, statesman and theologian.

Ibn Sīnā wrote almost 450 treatises on a wide range of subjects, of which around 240 have survived. In particular, 150 of his surviving treatises concentrate on philosophy and 40 of them concentrate on medicine. 

<TITLE>The Ashes</TITLE>
The Ashes is how to describe a "series" or group of cricket matches played by England and Australia.

The name comes from a small pot of ashes, which was made and presented to a former England captain in 1882, following a joke printed in The Sporting Times, an English newspaper, in 1882: Australia beat England in a series and someone placed an advert in the pages of the paper, describing how English cricket had died and its body had been cremated.

<TITLE>Analysis</TITLE>
An analysis is what a person has when he or she has analysed something. 

<TITLE>Amplitude modulation</TITLE>
Amplitude Modulation, usually shortened to AM, is a simple way to send a radio signal. The signal can travel long distances, and appear in faraway places, because of the earth's ionosphere. 

Amplitude is the height of a wave. A carrier wave is modulate by adding audio. The combined signal is transmit over a frequency. AM signals can be received by a crystal-powered radio set, that needs no batteries or electrical power source. Many early radios were homemade, and used earphone.

AM signals are mostly sent out on medium wave and shortwave frequencies. They do not carry high fidelity sound, but the sound is good enough to hear most things. Analog signals can fade in and out, or have from power line and power stations. Sunspot activity can also weaken signals.

In the early years of commercial radio, beginning in the 1920s, medium wave AM was the only kind of radio widely used. Radio programs were much like today's television programming, with news, sports, drama, music, comedy, and other entertainment.

Later Frequency Modulation radio was developed. It had better fidelity, but the signals could not travel as far, so AM was still important. After television became common in the 1950s, AM became a major for popular music. As FM became common in the 1970s, AM stations featured more news, and talk shows.

Shortwave radio signals can travel around the world, and are used by countries to send programs to distant places. These programs feature news about the country, examples of their native culture and history, and sometimes foreign language lessons.

<TITLE>Ardipithecus</TITLE>
Ardipithecus is a very early human of the genus, which lived about 4.4 million years ago during the early Pliocene.

Because this genus shares several traits with the African great ape genera , it is considered by some to be on the chimpanzee rather than human branch, but most consider it a proto-human because of a likeness in teeth with Australopithecus.

<TITLE>Adelaide</TITLE>
Adelaide is a city in Australia. It is the capital city of the state of South Australia, and it has an approximate population of 1.1 million people.

It is the fifth biggest city in Australia, behind Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. Adelaide was founded in 1836 by Colonel William Light, who named it after Queen Adelaide.

Adelaide is near the Southern Ocean and is north of the Fleurieu Peninsula. It has a river going through it called the River Torrens. Many festivals are held there, and grapes for wine production are grown in the Barossa Valley about 50 kilometres northeast of Adelaide.

<TITLE>Automorphism</TITLE>
in abstract algebra an automorphism is an isomorphism from a group , or set of elements onto itself.

<TITLE>Accordion</TITLE>
An accordion is a musical instrument that has keys similar to a piano, but is small enough for a person to hold, and makes sounds using air pushed and pulled through reeds using a bellows. The accordion can also have buttons instead of keys. 

<TITLE>Artificial intelligence</TITLE>
Artificial intelligence is the study of mental processes through the use of computational models. The name was coined as the topic of a 1956 Dartmouth Conference by John McCarthy. It is about making computers' decision making and train of thought appear more human. McCarthy defines it as "the science and engineering of making intelligent machines."

The idea behind AI is not to make a computer smart by knowing more information. It is to build a machine that can act as if it were smart. Very often, AI is closely connected to mathematical logic, the ability to prove things, and simplifying mathematical formulae. Sometimes, AI is meant to be a simulation of human intelligence, often as a part of research in the area of psychology.

One of the earliest descriptions of AI was the Turing machine. A Turing machine is any machine that takes a set of input data, performs some fixed calculations that must be chosen before the machine runs, and produces some predictable output. This machine is the basis of modern computers.

Thinking machines and artificial beings appear in Greek myths, such as Talos of Crete, the golden robots of Hephaestus and Pygmalion's Galatea. Human likenesses believed to have intelligence were built in every major civilization: animated statues were worshipped in Egypt and Greece 

<TITLE>Anaximander</TITLE>
Anaximander was a Pre-Socratic Greek philosopher who lived in Miletus, a city of Ionia. He belonged to the Milesian school and learned the teachings of his master Thales. He succeeded him and became the second master of that school where he counted Anaximenes and Pythagoras amongst his pupils.

Little of his life and work is known today. According to available historical documents, he is the first philosopher known to have written down his studies, although only one fragment of his work remains. Fragmentary testimonies found in documents after his death provide a portrait of the man.

<TITLE>Architect</TITLE>
An architect is a person who designs buildings and prepares plans to give to a builder. What he or she designs is called architecture. Architects make drawings with pens, pencils, and computers, and this is also called drafting. Sometimes they first make small toy-sized buildings called models to show what the building will look like when it is done. Some of these models survive for hundreds of years, eg at St Paul's Cathedral, London. 

Architects decide the size and shape of a building, and what it will be made from. They are the key designers of any and all buildings. Architects need to be good at math and drawing and must have imagination. They must go to university and study for a long time. There are special tests that must be taken before becoming an architect. For example, the tests make sure that architects know how to make the building's structure safe, so that it will not collapse. They should also know how to make a building attractive, so that people will enjoy using it. To be an architect you must go to college or a university for 5 years.

Although there has been architecture for thousands of years, there haven't always been architects. The great European cathedrals built in the Middle Ages were designed by a Master Builder, who scratched his designs on flat beds of plaster. Paper did not exist in Europe at this time and vellum or parchment were very expensive and could not be made in large sizes. Some cathedrals took hundreds of years to build, so the Master Builder would die or retire and be replaced and often plans changed. Some cathedrals were never finished, like Notre Dame in Paris or La Sagrada Familia in Barcelona.

An architect has a very important job, because his or her work will be seen and used by many people, probably for a very long time. If the design, materials and construction are good, the building should last for hundreds or even thousands of years. This is rarely the case. Usually building cost is what limits the life of a building, but fire, war, need or fashion can also affect things. As towns and cities grow, it often becomes necessary to make roads wider, or perhaps to build a new train station. Architects are employed again and so the city changes. Even very important buildings may get knocked down to make way for change.

<TITLE>Abbreviation</TITLE>
An abbreviation is a shorter way to write a word or phrase. People use abbreviations for words that they write a lot. The English language occasionally uses the apostrophe mark ' to show that a word is written in a shorter way, but some abbreviations do not use this mark. More often, they use periods, especially the ones that come from the Latin language. Common Latin abbreviations include i.e. that is, e.g. for example, and et al. and others.

Some new abbreviations have been created by scientists, by workers in companies and governments, and by people using the Internet. 

People often think words are abbreviations when in fact they are acronyms.

Here are examples of common acronyms: The word "radar" is an acronym for "Radio Detection and Ranging". The name of the large computer company IBM comes from the words "International Business Machines". The name of the part of the United States government that sends rockets into outer space is NASA, from the words "National Aeronautics and Space Administration". When people using the Internet think that something is very funny, they sometimes write "LOL" to mean "Laughing Out Loud". People sometimes write "ASAP" for "As Soon As Possible".

<TITLE>Aphrodite</TITLE>
Aphrodite is the goddess of love and beauty in Greek mythology, and one of the Twelve Olympians. Many painters chose to paint her as a naked woman. 

 Aphrodite was born from sea-foam near Paphos, Cyprus. She appeared from the sea after Kronos cut off Uranos's genitals and threw them into the sea. She is older than time.

 Aphrodite was very beautiful, which made Zeus, the god of the gods, afraid that she would be the cause of fights between the other gods. He therefore married Aphrodite to Hephaestus. Hephastus was happy to be married to Aphrodite and made her lots of jewelry. But Aphrodite did not like him, because he was very ugly, and went looking for other men. She spent most of her time with Ares, but was also linked with Adonis and Anchises.

<TITLE>Aleister Crowley</TITLE>
Aleister Crowley was a British mystic, occultist, writer, poet, mountain climber and nicknamed "The Wickedest Man In the World.".

He was an influential member in some occult organizations, such as the Golden Dawn, the A∴A∴, and Ordo Templi Orientis , and is better known today for his occult books and papers.

Crowley also started a mystical philosophy known as Thelema, the Abbey of Thelema, and revived the term magick.

 Edward Alexander Crowley was born at 36 Clarendon Square in Royal Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, England, between 11:00pm and 11:59p.m. on October 12, 1875.

In 1895, he went to Trinity College, Cambridge after going to Malvern College and Tonbridge School. In his three years at Cambridge, his father passed away and left him a large sum of money.

In December 1896, Crowley took interest in occultism and by the next year, he began reading books on alchemy and mysticism. A year later, he published his first book of poetry , and left Cambridge, only to meet Julian L. Baker who introduced him to Samuel Mathers and the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.

 Samuel Mathers, acting leader of the Golden Dawn organization, acted as his early mentor in western magic. Crowley lost faith in his mentor's abilities in 1900 but did not officially break with Mathers until 1904.

 Crowley died of a respiratory infection in a Hastings boarding house on 1 December 1947 at the age of 72. He had been addicted to heroin after being prescribed morphine for his asthma and bronchitis many years earlier.

Readings at the cremation service in Brighton included Hymn to Pan, and newspapers referred to the service as a black mass.

<TITLE>Afterlife</TITLE>
The afterlife is what some people believe happens after death. Different religions teach different things about the afterlife. 

Some religions believe in reincarnation . These religions include Buddhism and Hinduism. Others believe you go to another place after you die, such as heaven or hell. Christianity and Jainism are two religions that believe in this. Others believe that some people change into spirits called ghosts.

There are also those who do not believe that there is an afterlife, and that you simply cease to exist once you die.

<TITLE>Astrometry</TITLE>
Astrometry is a part of astronomy that has to do with measuring the motion of objects in space such as stars. Two main ways to measure these objects are proper motion and parallax.

Proper motion is an object’s change in position over time when seen from the Earth. Just like anything else that moves, a star's proper motion is measured by looking towards the same place at different times and seeing how far the star has moved. The difference with stars is that, from Earth, they seem to move very slowly so we have to measure in arcseconds per year. When a star has a large proper motion, it usually means that it is nearby. Barnard’s Star, the star with the largest proper motion, only moves 1 degree across the sky in 348 years.

Parallax is the apparent difference in position of an object when seen from two or more different places. When an object is seen from a new place, there is a new line of sight going from the viewer to the object showing a different background in the distance. Parallax is measured using the angle between two lines of sight.

Parallax can also be used to measure distances to the nearest few thousand stars. These distances are measured in parsecs which are equal to about 3.26 light years.

<TITLE>Athena</TITLE>
Athena is the Greek goddess of wisdom, strategy, war and travel. She is one of the Twelve Olympians. Athena has a pet owl, and wears a breastplate, called Aegis, which was a present given to her by Zeus. She is often shown with her helmet on and with her shield, which has Medusa's head on it. This was a present to her from Perseus. 

Athena is the protector of Athens, Greece, a city named after her. The Parthenon, which is on the Acropolis in Athens, is her most famous temple. She also helped many heroes, including Heracles, Jason, and Odysseus, and is always seen with Nike, the goddess of victory. 

 There are many stories about Athena's birth. In Hesiod's Theogony, Zeus had sexual intercourse with Metis, but was then scared of her having a child because a prophecy had said that a son born to Metis would overthrow Zeus as he had done to his father. To try and stop Metis having a child, Zeus swallowed her whole . However, Zeus was too late. Metis was already pregnant when metis had her baby inside of Zeus, he got a major headache. he cut his head open and out came athena completely dressed in armor. 

While she was inside Zeus, Metis made a helmet and a robe for her baby. The hammering noise caused Zeus to have a headache. To try and help Zeus with the pain, Prometheus, Hephaestus, Hermes or Palaemon cut his head open with a Minoan axe. Athena then came out of Zeus's head. She was fully grown and had her armor on.

<TITLE>Alloy</TITLE>
An alloy is a uniform mixture. It is made up of two or more chemical elements, of which at least one is a metal. An alloy has properties different from the metals it is made of.

Most alloys are made by melting the metals, mixing them while they are liquid to form a solution, then leaving them to cool and turn solid again.

Alnico is a mix of aluminium and nickel and cobalt, and it is used to make permanent magnets. 

<TITLE>Angle</TITLE>
An angle is the space between two lines that meet each other. When two lines meet at a point, an angle is formed. The two lines are called the arms of the angle. The point they meet is called the vertex.

To measure the size of an angle, we use degree. Degree is a standard unit. Degree is denoted by the symbol '°'. A degree can be divided into 60 minutes , and a minute can be also be divided into 60 seconds . In mathematics, angles are usually measured in radians.

An acute angle is an angle less than 90°. A right angle is an angle equal to 90°. An obtuse angle is an angle greater than 90°. A straight angle is an angle equal to 180°. A reflex angle is an angle greater than 180° but less than 360°.

Supplementary angles are two angles with the sum equal to 180°.

Two angles that sum to one right angle are called complementary angles. 

Two angles that sum to one full circle are called explementary angles or conjugate angles. 

People usually use a protractor to measure and draw angles. Sometimes, people use an angle ruler to measure angles.

<TITLE>Acoustics</TITLE>
Acoustics is the study of sound.

<TITLE>American Sign Language</TITLE>
American Sign Language is the most popular sign language for the Deaf in the United States, in the English-speaking parts of Canada, and in parts of Mexico. Although the United Kingdom and the United States share English as a spoken and written language, British Sign Language is different than American Sign Language.

ASL is also used in the Philippines, Singapore, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Côte d'Ivoire, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Togo, Benin, Nigeria, Chad, Gabon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Central African Republic, Mauritania, Kenya, Madagascar, and Zimbabwe. Like other sign languages, its grammar is different from any spoken language. No one knows how many people use sign language, but some people think that between 500,000 and 2 million people in the U.S.A. alone use sign language. It is the third most used language in the United States, behind English and Spanish.

ASL includes fingerspelling. Fingerspelling is a way to show any letter of the English alphabet using one hand. Fingerspelling is also used to express numbers. Names of people and names of places can be fingerspelled.

<TITLE>Applet</TITLE>
An applet is a type of program for computers. It is software. Very often, applets are written in Java. People run them in their Web browser. They are used to display a nice scrolling menu on a website, for example, the applet is also used to show some applications.

<TITLE>Atomic orbital</TITLE>
Atomic orbitals are the places surrounding the nucleus of an atom where the electrons are most likely to be at any given time. It used to be believed that electrons behaved similarly to the solar system, where the sun is the nucleus and the planets are like the electrons. However, electrons do not go in circles, they move erratically. The number of atomic orbitals in an element is defined by the period the element is in. Electrons move between orbitals depending on how fast they are moving and how many other electrons there are.

<TITLE>Amino acid</TITLE>
In biology and biochemistry, Amino acids are seen as the building blocks of proteins. There are 20 standard amino acids that almost all proteins are made out of. Some amino acids are glycine, alanine, and tryptophan. In chemistry, an amino acid can refer to any molecule that contains both amine and carboxyl functional groups. In biochemistry, this term refers to alpha-amino acids with the general formula H2NCHRCOOH.

<TITLE>Alan Turing</TITLE>
Alan Mathison Turing was an English mathematician and computer scientist.

He was one of the first people to work with modern digital computers. He was the first person to think of using a computer for different things. He told people that computers could run different programs. Turing introduced the idea of a Turing machine in 1936. The machine was imaginary, and ran a set of commands. 

Turing also thought of the Turing test. The Turing test is a test to see if a person can tell the difference between another person and a computer.

During the Second World War, Turing was a main participant in the efforts to break German ciphers. On the basis of cryptanalysis he helped to break both the Enigma machine and the Lorenz SZ 40/42 , and was, for a time, head of Hut 8, the section responsible for reading German naval signals.

Alan Turing was a gay man. In 1952, Turing admitted having sex with a man. At that time in England, homosexuality was a crime. He was tried and convicted of this crime in a British court. and was forced to make a choice. He had to choose between going to jail or "chemical castration" . He chose the hormones. But this made him impotent and made him grow breasts. After suffering these effects for two years, he committed suicide with an apple poisoned with cyanide in 1954. 

The treatment forced on him is now believed to be very wrong, going against medical ethics and international laws of human rights, and malpractice by most doctors.

<TITLE>Area</TITLE>
Area is the amount of space a two dimensional surface takes up. It is useful because it is how much of a material is needed to make a hollow container; for example, how much wood is needed to make a wardrobe.

You can use different formulas to find the area of different shapes.

The area of a flat object is related to the surface area and volume of a three-dimensional object.

The area under a curve can be found using integration, from calculus.

Some units used to measure area are square mile and square kilometre.

<TITLE>Astronomical unit</TITLE>
The astronomical unit is a unit of length about the same as the distance from the center of the Earth to the center of the Sun. The currently accepted value of the AU is 149,597,870,691 kilometers .

Astronomers usually measure distances within the Solar System in astronomical units. Mars is about 1.4 AU from the Sun, Jupiter lies at roughly 5.2 AU, and Neptune is roughly 30 AU from the Sun.

Astronomical unit is a term that is important to remember and consider. when we try to understand the universe. 

<TITLE>Artist</TITLE>
An artist is a person who creates art. This word is used most often for persons and activities of 'high culture'. That is for example drawing, painting, sculpture, acting, dancing, writing, filmmaking, photography, and music. Sometimes a person who is very good at their job is called an artist, even if it is not considered as art. A scientist or mathematician can be called an artist. 

<TITLE>Anglicanism</TITLE>
Anglicanism is the term used for the doctrine, religious belief, faith, system, practice and principles of the Church of England and other Anglican churches. The term at its broadest includes those who have accepted the work of the English Reformation as embodied in the Church of England or in the offshoot Churches which in other countries have adhered, at least substantially, to its doctrines, its organization, and its liturgy.

The term Anglican derives from a Medieval Latin phrase dating to at least 1246 - ecclesia anglicana -meaning 'the English Church'. The noun Anglican is used to describe the people, institutions and churches as well as the liturgical traditions and theological concepts developed by the state established Church of England and the Anglican Communion, a theologically broad and often divergent affiliation of thirty-eight provinces that are in communion with the Archbishop of Canterbury. 

<TITLE>Athens</TITLE>
Athens is the capital city of Greece. It is one of the most famous cities in the world. The city is named after Athena. She is the goddess of wisdom and war in Greek mythology. Athens has a population of over three million people and is growing. It is in the prefecture, or division of the country, of Attica.

It is known that there were settlements in Attica region since prehistoric times. It is unknown, however, when exactly one of them called for first time "Athens". According to Plato , when Solon visited Egypt, some priests told him that according to their archives there was a city called Athens at least from 9600 BC. Of course that cannot been proven if it's so, yet. 

According to Greek mythology the name "Athens" have given in the time of its first king Cecrops, about 2000 BC.

Later, the myth o Theseas shows that the city was a vassal of Minoic Crete until an expedition that overthrown that status-quo.

According to Homer's Iliad Athens took the side of Mykenae in Troic War, senting 50 ships under the command of its king Menestheas. That shows that it was already a relatively major city of Grrece, since a few other cities sent more.

Athens was a powerful city in Classical times. It was known for the amount of learning that happened there. The city was home to Plato's Academy and Aristotle's Lyceum. It also had its own Constitution. Athens also created the world's first known democracy.

The city started to decline in 529, when the Emperor Justinian I closed its philosophical schools. Parthenon had made in Cristian Church. That act saved it later from destraction of non Christian temoples, in times of deep Theocracy.

The Ottoman Turks took control of Athens in 1458. The Turks made the Parthenon into a Muslim mosque. The Parthenon was later damaged in 1687 when gunpowder exploded inside it. 

Athens was freed from the Turks during the Greek war of independence . It was then made into the capital of Greece.

<TITLE>Anguilla</TITLE>
Anguilla is a group of five islands in the Caribbean Sea. The islands are ruled by Great Britain. 

Anguilla was once part of what is now Saint Kitts and Nevis, but broke away in 1980. Anguilla wanted to still be a part of Great Britain, and Saint Kitts and Nevis wanted to be independent.

It is named after the Spanish word for "eel", because it has such a shape.

 The queen of the United Kingdom is the ruler of Anguilla, but she works through a governor. She names, or appoints the governor, and he is just working there in her place. The legislature is elected by the people, has 11 members, and is called the House of Assembly.

 Anguilla gets most of its money from fishing and tourism.

 Most people in Anguilla are Protestants, and speak English.

<TITLE>Ashmore and Cartier Islands</TITLE>
The Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands is two groups of small low-lying uninhabited tropical islands in the Indian Ocean north-west of Australia and south of the Indonesian island of Roti.

The territory includes Ashmore Reef and Cartier Island with, a total area of 199.45 km² within the reefs and including the lagoons, and 114,400 m² of dry land. They have a long coastline, over 74 km, but there are no ports or harbours, only offshore anchorage. Nearby Hibernia Reef, 42 km northeast of Ashmore Reef, is not part of the territory, because it has no permanently dry land area, although large parts of the reef become exposed during low tide.

The territory is administered from Canberra by the Australian Department of the Environment and Heritage. Therefore it is a dependency within the commonwealth. The islands are visited by seasonal caretakers.

<TITLE>Alexander Mackenzie</TITLE>
Alexander Mackenzie, PC was the second Prime Minister of Canada.

<TITLE>Ashoka the Great</TITLE>
Ashoka means "He who is loved by the Gods and who is friendly to everyone". He was an Indian emperor, of the Maurya dynasty of India who ruled from 273 BCE to 232 BCE. Often cited as one of India's greatest emperor, Ashoka reigned over most of present-day India after a number of military conquests. After fighting a war with 200,457 casualties, he decided to become a Buddhist and lead with peace, not war. In order to accomplish this, he set up hospitals for animals and humans, as well as shade and rest areas along roads for weary travelers to rest. 

<TITLE>Arianism</TITLE>
Arianism is a form of Christianity. It has come from Arius. Arianism has stopped being practiced today, but was important during the Roman era, into the Middle Ages.

The main difference between the beliefs of Arianism and other main Christian denominations is that the Arians did not believe in the Holy Trinity, which is a way that other Christian churches use to explain God. The information that we have today comes from the writing of people who were against Arianism and said the beliefs were wrong. 

Between the First Council of Nicaea in 325, and the First Council of Constantinople in the year 381 there were no less than 18 different Creeds used by Arianists.

 In the 16th century there was again a movement against the belief in Trinity. A well-known person teaching this was Fausto Sozzini . Another one was Ferenc Dávid . These movements developed into what is called Unitarianism today. Unitarians believe that there is only one person in god, not the three-in-one dogma of trinity. Some of the teachings of Jehovah's Witnesses are close to some of the things Arians believed. It is different only in that Arians believed the holy spirit is a person and Jehovah's Witnesses teach it is not a person, but a force God uses to do His will. It would however be false to call them Arians, as they reject many Arian teachings. Mormons and Oneness Pentecostalism also reject the Trinity but for different reasons other than Arianism.

<TITLE>Advanced Encryption Standard</TITLE>
In cryptography, the Advanced Encryption Standard , which is also known as Rijndael, is a block cipher algorithm used as an encryption standard by the U.S. government. It has been looked at a lot and is now used all over the world, as was the case with its predecessor, the Data Encryption Standard . AES was announced by National Institute of Standards and Technology as U.S. FIPS PUB 197 on November 26, 2001 after a 5-year standardization process in which fifteen competing designs were presented and evaluated before Rijndael was selected as the most suitable. It became effective as a standard May 26, 2002. As of 2008, AES is one of the most popular algorithms used in symmetric key cryptography. It is available by choice in many different encryption packages. This marks the first time that the public has had access to a cipher algorithm approved by NSA for top secret information.

This cipher algorithm was developed by two Belgian cryptographers, Joan Daemen and Vincent Rijmen, and submitted to the AES selection process under the name "Rijndael", a portmanteau of the names of the inventors. .

"The design and strength of all key lengths of the AES algorithm are sufficient to protect classified information up to the SECRET level. TOP SECRET information will require use of either the 192 or 256 key lengths. The implementation of AES in products intended to protect national security systems and/or information must be reviewed and certified by NSA prior to their acquisition and use."

Many AES public products use 128-bit secret keys by default; it is possible that the NSA may assume that 128-bit secret keys are weak and they may prefer longer keys for top secret documents. 

Unlike DES , AES is a substitution-permutation network, not a Feistel network. AES is fast in both software and hardware, is relatively easy to implement, and requires little memory. As a new encryption standard, it is currently being deployed on a large scale on various platforms.

<TITLE>Analytical engine</TITLE>
A machine that Charles Babbage designed. It wasn't ever actually built.

<TITLE>Augustus</TITLE>
Caesar Augustus was the first and one of the most important Roman Emperors. He led Rome into the first stages of becoming the mightiest empire the world had ever seen. 

Octavian Augustus Caesar was the adopted son of the dictator of the Roman Republic, Gaius Julius Caesar. Octavian came into power in the second triumvirate , along with Marcus Antonius and Lepidus. Augustus and Antonius were loyal to Julius Caesar, the assassinated dictator, killed in 44 BC. Following his death a civil war broke out across Rome, between those loyal to Caesar, and those loyal to Caesar's rival Pompey. There was short break in the war during the rule of the triumvirate, but Lepidus' death, and Mark Antony's staying in Egypt with Cleopatra, only resulted in further and further bloodshed. 

After winning this bloody power struggle, Octavian was voted as the first Emperor of Rome by the Senate following the battle of Actium in 31 BC, and he took the name "Augustus" . He ruled until AD 14, when his stepson and son-in-law Tiberius became Emperor in his place.

During his reign, some of those who were against his government were murdered . He had promised to make Rome a Republic again, but instead proclaimed himself with more titles including Chief Priest, and many temples in the provinces set up statues of him as one of their gods. The name of the month "August" in English comes from him.

His main accomplishment was the creation of the Roman Empire, a political structure that lasted for nearly five centuries more. 

<TITLE>Apocrypha</TITLE>
The Apocrypha are religious texts that are in some versions of the Bible. Other versions omit them. The word comes from Ancient Greek ἀπόκρυφα . Apocrypha means those that were hidden. Generally, the term is applied to writings that were not part of the canon. There are several reasons why these texts were not included in the canon. The texts might only have been known to few people, or they might have been left out because their content does not fit well into that of the other books of the Bible. Some of the apocrypha were written at a later date, and where therefore not included. 

The Authorized King James Version called these books ‘Apocrypha’. It separated them, because the Bible said so in 2 Esdras 14:46, But keep the seventy last, that thou mayest deliver them only to such as be wise among the people: For in them is the spring of understanding, the fountain of wisdom, and the stream of knowledge.

Roman Catholic Bibles have these books in the Old Testament. They do not call them Apocrypha. They call them deuterocanonical, which means that they belong to the second canon. Canon just means an official list of literary works accepted as representing a field. The first list is of books first written in Hebrew. This second list is of books first written in Greek.

 These books were kept in Catholic Bibles because it is believed that the Bible Jesus read was a Bible that included the books of the "Apocrypha," the deuterocanonical books. It is known that the most popular Bible at the time of Jesus was the Greek Septuagint version - which includes these extra books. That is why early Church fathers quoted from Bibles including these books.

 Christians disagree about the ‘Apocrypha’. Others point out that the ‘Apocrypha’ was in every Christian Bible until 1828. In 1828 these books were taken out of some Bibles. The translators of the King James Bible said that these books were written to prepare the people for Jesus, in the same way as John the Baptist did. They said that the apostles used these books. 

There is no question that these books have always been part of the Bible in Oriental Orthodox Churches, so they were definitely not added in the 1500s. Around the year 80 AD, the Jewish Council decided to cut the books from the Hebrew Bible, but they stayed in the Christian Bible. Then soon after Christianity became the only religion of Roman Empire in the 4th century, the Romans decided to cut out all of the same books that the Sanhedrin had cut out, and they moved some of them to the "apocrypha".

Note: Other candidates for Apocryphal scriptures include supposedly lost portions of Esther and Sirach.

<TITLE>Antarctic Treaty System</TITLE>
The ATS is used for governing the continent.

It was started in June 23rd, 1961 when twelve countries came together and signed a contract agreeing to abide by the laws above. Nowadays there are at least 46 Countries involved.

<TITLE>Ames, Iowa</TITLE>
Ames is a city of Iowa in the United States. In 2006 there were 54,181 people living in the city. It is was built between Skunk River and Squaw Creek, 35 miles north of the state capital, Des Moines. The town was first settled in 1864 as a railway town at a spot where the Skunk River could be crossed easily. It was named after Oakes Ames, a member of the US Congress who supported building the railway. 

Ames is the home of the Iowa State University. It is also famous for being the home of the U.S Department of Agriculture's National Animal Disease Center.

<TITLE>Abalone</TITLE>
Abalone are a type of Gastropod shellfish.

Abalone are known by their colorful inside shell. This is also called ear-shell, ormer in Guernsey, perlemoen in South Africa, and pāua in New Zealand.

The meat of this shellfish is thought to be delicious in some parts of Latin America , South East Asia, and East Asia .

 Abalones live all over the world. They can be seen along the waters of every continent, except the Atlantic coast of South America, the Caribbean, and the East Coast of the United States. Most abalones are found in cold waters, along the coasts of New Zealand, South Africa and Australia, and Western North America and Japan in the Northern Hemisphere. In the Chilean Pacific coast, the species called loco has a hard, black shell, and is eaten by many people.

Abalone have unique features: the shell is round, with two to three spirals. The last spiral is grown into a large "ear"-like shape, which explains the name 'ear-shell'. The inside of the shell is shiny, from silvery white to green-red mother-of-pearl.

Abalones can start to give birth at a small size. Their fertility is high and increases with size .

Young albalones, called larvae, feed on plankton. The adults eat plants and feed on algae. They like to eat red algae. Their size can be as small as 20 mm to as big as 200 mm. 

 The shell of the abalone is known for being very strong. It is made of very tiny calcium carbonate tiles stacked like bricks. Between the layers of tiles is a sticky protein substance. Allergic skin reactions and asthma attacks can happen when breathing the dust made when these tiles are broken down.

The colorful inside part of the abalone shell can be used for decorative inlays, in guitars, for example.

Sport harvesting of Red Abalone is allowed with a California fishing license and an abalone stamp card. Abalone may only be taken using breath-hold techniques: freediving or shorepicking. SCUBA diving for abalone is strictly not allowed. Abalone harvesting is not allowed south of the mouth of the San Francisco Bay. There is a size minimum of seven inches measured across the shell and a limit of three per day and 24 per year that can be taken. Abalone may only be taken in April, May, June, August, September, October and November, but they may not be taken in July, December, January, February or March. Transportation of abalone is only legal while the abalone is still attached to the shell. Sale of sport-caught abalone is illegal, including the shell. Only Red Abalone may be taken; black, white, pink, and flat abalone are protected by law.

An abalone diver normally uses a very thick wetsuit, including a hood, booties, and gloves. He or she would also wear a mask, snorkel, weight belt, abalone iron, and abalone gauge. It is common to take abalone in water a few inches up to 10 m/28' deep. Freedivers who can work deeper than 10 m/28' are less common. Abalone are normally found on rocks near food sources . An abalone iron is used to pry the abalone from the rock before it can fully clamp down. Visibility is normally five to ten feet. Divers commonly dive out of boats, kayaks, tube floats or directly off the shore. An eight inch abalone is considered a good catch, a nine inch would be very good, and a ten inch plus abalone would be an excellent catch. Rock- or shore-picking is a different method from diving where the rock picker feels below rocks during low tides for abalone.

There has been a trade in diving to catch abalones off parts of the United States coast from before 1939. In World War II, many of these abalone divers were recruited into the United States armed forces and trained as frogmen.

There have been a number of attempts to artificially grow abalone for the purpose of consumption.

<TITLE>Arminianism</TITLE>
Arminianism is a school of soteriological thought in Protestant Christian theology founded by the Dutch theologian Jacobus Arminius.

<TITLE>Antimatter</TITLE>
Antimatter is stuff within the universe that is the equal and opposite of matter. It looks just like matter and acts just like matter, but cannot touch matter. If the matter and the anti matter touch they will become completely neutral and annihilate each other 

 In physics, all the elementary particles, or the basic building blocks of the things we can touch, come in pairs. Each particle has what is called an antiparticle, much like an evil twin, which may look and act just like the regular particle, except for one major difference. An example is the electron and the positron. They both weigh the same, and act the same, but the electron has a negative electrical charge, while the positron has a positive electrical charge, which is where the positron gets its name.

Other antimatter particles are the same way, where they have the same weight, and look and act the same as regular particles, but their electrical charge is the opposite of regular particles. Antihydrogen, for example, has the positron, which is positively charged, orbiting around an antiproton, which is negatively charged, which is the opposite way regular hydrogen looks, which has the electron , orbiting around a proton .

 Albert Einstein, a very famous scientist, found a formula that can tell how much energy a certain amount of something has, whether it is matter or antimatter. This formula is , and is one of the most well known equations. In simple terms, if you take the mass of something and then multiply it by the speed of light, and then multiply it by the speed of light again, you'll get how much pure energy a given piece of something has. Since the speed of light is such a big number, this means that even a small amount of matter can have a lot of energy.

The reason this is important to understand antimatter is because scientists found that when matter and antimatter touch each other, the amount of energy that is released comes very close to the amount of energy says should be all together in those two pieces. The reason is that each particle of matter, when it touches its antiparticle in the antimatter world, both change over into pure energy, or annihilate each other. This release of such a high amount of energy is why a lot of science fiction writers use antimatter for fuel in their stories. For example, author Dan Brown uses antimatter in "Angels and Demons" as a very powerful weapon, if only to make the story interesting. It is also being looked at as a fuel source for real-life missions to outer space in the future.

 A lot of scientists think that in the first few moments after the Big Bang, which created the universe a very long time ago, there was both matter and antimatter mixing together. Since there was just a little bit more matter than antimatter created , whatever was left over after most of the matter and antimatter annihilated into energy became the Universe we see today. Physicists don't yet know for sure that equal amounts of matter and antimatter were created, and because of this, they are also wondering where the antimatter went, and if any was left over from the beginning of the universe.

 Because antimatter can make so much energy, it can be used for a lot of things, such as fuel for going into outer space, or in our cars. The problem is that antimatter is very very expensive to make, and is almost as expensive to store, since it cannot touch regular matter. It takes several hundred million dollars to make less than one-millionth of a gram of antimatter! In fact, it is the most expensive and rare substance on Earth. Since it is so expensive, this means that antimatter is not practical to use as a weapon or as an energy source, because so little of it is available.

It does have a use in medicine, because a special kind of scanner called the PET, which stands for positron emission tomography, uses positrons to go into the human body. Doctors can look at the way the positron changes into energy inside a person's body, and be able to tell if something is wrong inside a person. This kind of machine works differently than an X-ray machine or an magnetic resonance imaging machine, and can help doctors see things that those other machines cannot see.

<TITLE>Antiparticle</TITLE>
Corresponding to most kinds of particle, there is an associated antiparticle with the same mass and opposite charges. 

Even electrically neutral particles, such as the neutron, are not identical to their antiparticle. In the example of the neutron, the 'ordinary' particle is made out of quarks and the antiparticle out of antiquarks.

Particle-antiparticle pairs can annihilate each other if they are in appropriate quantum states. They can also be produced in various processes. These processes are used in today's particle accelerators to create new particles and to test theories of particle physics. High energy processes in nature can create antiparticles. These are visible in cosmic rays and in certain nuclear reactions. The word antimatter properly refers to antiparticles, composite antiparticles made with them and to larger assemblies of either.

In 1932, soon after the prediction of positrons by Paul Dirac, Carl D. Anderson found that cosmic-ray collisions produced these particles in a cloud chamber— a particle detector in which moving electrons leave behind trails as they move through the gas. 

The antiproton and antineutron were found by Emilio Segrè and Owen Chamberlain in 1955 at the University of California, Berkeley. Since then the antiparticles of many other subatomic particles have been created in particle accelerator experiments. In recent years, complete atoms of antimatter have been assembled out of antiprotons and positrons, collected in electromagnetic traps.

<TITLE>Associativity</TITLE>
Associativity is a property of mathematical operations . It means that if you have more than one of the same associative operator in a row, the order of operations does not matter.

For example, if you have , there are two plus signs in a row. This means we can add it in either this order:

The answer comes out the same both ways because addition is associative.

Not all operations are associative. Subtraction is not associative, which means:

Also, associativity is different from commutativity, which lets you move the numbers around.

<TITLE>Apatosaurus</TITLE>
Apatosaurus was a sauropod dinosaur that lived in the Jurassic Period. It was known before as Brontosaurus. It grew as big as 21 meters long, 4.5 meters tall at the hip, and weighed up to 23 metric tons. It ate plants. The bones of Apatosaurus have been found in Wyoming, Colorado, Oklahoma, and Utah in the United States.

When it was first found, scientists thought that Apatosaurus lived partly under water, since it could not hold its own weight on dry land. Now they think it lived on dry land, probably in herds.

<TITLE>Allosaurus</TITLE>
Allosaurus was a predatory meat-eater dinosaur from the Jurassic period. It averaged nine meters in length. There are four species of Allosaurus: Allosaurus grew to about the size of Tyrannosaurus and weighed 1-3 tons.

<TITLE>AK-47</TITLE>
The AK-47 is a Russian assault rifle designed in 1947 by Mikhail Kalashnikov and first used in 1949. It and two updated versions called the AKM and AK-74 were used by the Soviet Union's Military . The AK-47 quickly became famous and spread all around the world because it was so simple for an automatic gun. The AK-47 and its successors continue to be used by many of the world's armies and insurgencies. It is a cheap, reliable, and easy to use weapon.

The AK-47 was one of the first guns to use a method called Gas-operated reloading. When the bullet is moved down the barrel, a little bit of the gas behind the bullet is made to go up a small tube that pushes away the bolt. This is special because the person who is shooting the gun does not have to reload with their hand every time that they want to shoot - the gun reloads by itself.

The AK-47 used many simple ideas that were first invented for the German Sturmgewehr 44 WW2 assault rifle. The AK-47 is a common gun used by many groups because it is so cheap and available. One of the reasons it is so common is that the Soviets left many behind when they left Afghanistan. The letters AK stand for Avtomat Kalashnikova, which is Russian for Kalashnikov's Automatic Rifle. It shoots the Soviet 7.62x39mm cartridge. It is only accurate up to 300 meters. After that the bullet starts to tumble and drop. 

<TITLE>Andes</TITLE>
The Andes are a mountain range along the western coast of South America. They stretch over 7,000 km / 4,400 miles from the south of Argentina and Chile to the north of Colombia. The Andes are the longest exposed mountain range of the world, and the second highest after the Himalayas. They are found mostly in Peru and Bolivia. The Andes mountain range is the highest mountain range outside Asia. Aconcagua, the highest peak, rises to 6,962 m above sea level. The top of Mount Chimborazo in the Ecuadorean Andes is the point on the Earth's surface most distant from its center. Mount Chimborazo is a mountain. It is also a inactive volcano in Ecuador. People think that its last eruption was over a thousand years ago.

The Andes can be put into three sections: the Southern Andes in Argentina and Chile; the Central Andes, having the Chilean and Peruvian mountain system and parts of Bolivia; and the northern part in Venezuela, Colombia, and Ecuador, having of two parallel ranges. They are the Cordillera Occidental and the Cordillera Oriental. In Colombia, north to the border with Ecuador, the Andes split in three parallel ranges, western, central and eastern. In the northern part the cut off Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta range is often thought as part of the Andes. The eastern range is the only one that reaches Venezuela. The term cordillera comes from the Spanish word meaning 'rope'. The Andes range is about 200 k wide throughout its length, except in Bolivia where it is 640 k wide. The islands of the Dutch Caribbean Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao, which lie in the Caribbean Sea off the coast of Venezuela, represent the submerged tops of the northern edge of the Andes range. 

The climate in the Andes differs depending on where, altitude, and how close it is to the sea. The southern section is rainy and cool. The central Andes are dry. The northern Andes are normally rainy and warm, with an average temperature of 18 C in Colombia. The climate is known to change very much in rather short distances. Rainforests exist just miles away from the snow covered peak Cotopaxi. The mountains have a large effect on the temperatures of nearby areas. The snow line depends on the location. It is at between 4,500-4,800 m in the tropical Ecuadorian, Colombian, Venezuelan, and northern Peruvian Andes, going up to 4,800-5,200 m in the drier mountains of southern Peru south to northern Chile south to about 30°S, then going down to 4500 m on Aconcagua at 32°S, 2000 m at 40°S, 500 m at 50°S, and only 300 m in Tierra del Fuego at 55°S; from 50°S, many of the bigger glaciers go down to sea level.

The Andes of Chile and Argentina can be put in two climatic and glaciological zones; the Dry Andes and the Wet Andes. Since the Dry Andes reaches from the latitudes of Atacama Desert to the place of Maule River, rain is more on and off, and there are strong temperature waves. The line of evenness may change very much over a short amount of of time. This leaves a whole glacier in the ablation place or in the accumulation area.

 Rainforests used to hold much of the northern Andes but are now mostly diminished, especially in the Chocó and inter-Andean valleys of Colombia. As a direct opposite of the humid Andean slopes are the mostly dry Andean slopes in most of western Peru, Chile and Argentina. Along with many Interandean Valles, they are normally ruled by deciduous woodland, shrub and xeric vegetation, reaching in the slopes near the mostly lifeless Atacama Desert.

About 30,000 species of vascular plants live in the Andes. About half of those are endemic to the region, going past the difference of any other hotspot. The small tree Cinchona pubescens, a source of quinine which is used to treat malaria, is found widely in the Andes as far south as Bolivia. Other important crops that came from the Andes are tobacco and potatoes. The high-altitude Polylepis forests and woodlands are found in the Andean places of Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia and Chile. These trees, by locals are called Queñua, Yagual and other names, can be found at altitudes of 4500 m above sea level. It is still unclear if the patchy distribution of these forests and woodlands is natural, or the result of clearing which began during the Incan time. Regardless, in modern times the clearance has had a faster pace, and the trees are now thought to be highly endangered, with some thinking that as little as 10% of the original woodland is still here.

The Andes has a lot of wildlife. With almost 1,000 species, of which about 2/3 are endemic to the region, the Andes is the most important region in the world for amphibians. Animal diversity in the Andes is high, with almost 600 species of mammals , more than 1,700 species of birds , more than 600 species of reptiles , and almost 400 species of fish .

The Vicuña and Guanaco can be found living in the Altiplano, while the closely related domesticated Llama and Alpaca are commonly kept by locals as pack animals and for their meat and wool. The nocturnal chinchillas, two threatened members of the rodent order, live in the Andes' alpine regions. The Andean Condor, the largest bird of its kind in the Western Hemisphere, lives throughout much of the Andes but mostly in very low numbers. Other animals found in the mostly open habitats of the high Andes are the huemul, cougar, foxes in the genus Pseudalopex. And for birds, some species of tinamous , are the Andean Goose, Giant Coot, flamingos , Lesser Rhea, Andean Flicker, Diademed Sandpiper-plover, miners, sierra-finches and diuca-finches. 

<TITLE>Anchor</TITLE>
Anchors are used to stop boats from moving. Today, anchors are usually made of metal, and they are made to catch the ocean floor .

There are two main types of anchors: temporary and permanent. A permanent anchor is called a mooring block and is not easily moved. A temporary anchor can be moved and is carried on the boat. When people talk about anchors, they are usually thinking about temporary anchors.

An anchor works by either weight or shape. Shape is more important to temporary anchors, and design is very important. Anchors must resist wind and tide, and also the up-and-down movement of waves.

The oldest anchors were just rocks, and many rock anchors have been found from a long time ago. Many modern moorings still use a large rock as the mooring block.

A simple anchor which uses two arms made of wood, and a rock weight, is an anchor which is still used today. The wood arms are sharp to enter the seabed, and the weight will hold normal movement.

The English language uses several special words to describe parts of anchors. This is because England has a rich marine and naval history, and so the language gives a large number of words to boat and ship terminology.

A modern temporary anchor usually has a middle bar called the shank, attached to a flat surface which holds the seabed. The place where the shank meets the fluke is called the crown, and the shank is usually fitted with a ring or shackle to attach it to the rode . Some old anchors have attached to the shank a stock, which is a bar that places the anchor in a certain way when it falls on the seabed. Old anchors are often named "stocked" or "stockless" anchors depending on whether they have this, or not.

There are many designs.

Over the last 20 years, many new anchor designs have appeared. These anchors are usually designed for small vessels, and are usually not for large ships. See modern designs.

The Fisherman has a traditional design that has not changed much over time. It is less useful than a good modern design, and its holding power for its weight is among the worst of all anchor types.

The most common brand of fluke anchors is the Danforth. The Danforth style uses a stock at the crown , to which two large flat flukes are attached. The stock can rotate, so the flukes can move toward the bottom. It can hold very well but has difficulty setting on its own. It is efficient for its weight.

Fluke anchors have difficulty penetrating kelp and weed seabeds, as well as very hard sand or clay seabeds. Once set, the anchor can come free and fail to reset on its own.

A traditional design, the grapnel style is simple to design and build. It is a simple hook that is good for rock or reefs. It is useless for most other seabeds.

The original CQR was invented in 1933 in the United Kingdom. Many copies of it now exist. Plows used to be popular with sailors and private boaters. They are good but not excellent in most seabeds. Another more recent design is the Delta which is better.

Plows use a special weight in the tip of the fluke for them to work properly. This makes them heavy.

The genuine CQR and Delta brands are now owned by Lewmar.

The genuine Bruce was invented in the 1970's and to try to solve some problems of the plow. Many copies are now made. This type of anchor is now called a "claw-type". Claw anchors can set quickly in some seabeds, but do not hold well for their weight, and can let go very suddenly.

Bruce Anchor Group no longer make the genuine Bruce. Most copies are lower quality than the genuine Bruce.

Modern anchors are designed to be better than the plow and claw types. Many are new, still under patent and owned by commercial companies or tied to certain brands.

Many modern designs are better than the older types. This chart shows tests done by West Marine in 2006 . The anchors were tested on three different sandy seabeds, at three different scopes .

Six of the seven best anchors on this chart are "modern", but several modern anchors did very badly. This shows that 'newer' is not always better.

 Permanent anchors are used when a floating thing must be kept in place for a long time. They are used to anchor Lightships, navigation buoys, and moorings. The anchor must hold in all weather, even the worst storm.

 A deadweight anchors is a heavy weight. It can be used when the bottom is too hard for other types of anchors. It can be made of a large rock or a concrete block.

Mushroom and pyramid anchors are good where the seabed is soft. This type of anchor needs time to dig into the seabed. It can be smaller and lighter than a deadweight anchor. The mushroom anchor is shaped like a mushroom, and the pyramid anchor is shaped like a pyramid with the apex pointing down. 

 The sand screw must be screwed into the seabed before it is used. It can be very light.

<TITLE>Anagram</TITLE>
An anagram is a puzzle where the player has to rearrange all the letters in a word to make a new word. 

An example would be The Morse Code and Here Comes Dots.

<TITLE>André-Marie Ampère</TITLE>
André-Marie Ampère was a French physicist and mathematician who helped discover electromagnetism. An electrical unit called the ampere is named after him.

 Ampere was born in Lyon, France in 1775. During his childhood, Ampere's father taught him Latin, until he found out that his son was talented in mathematical studies. However, young Ampere continued his study on Latin, so that he could understand and master the works of Euler and Bernoulli. In his later life, Ampere began to distinguish himself in mathematical field; not only was he specialized in mathematical field, but also he studied history, travels, poetry, phiolosophy, and the natural sciences. During the years of French Revolution, a great sorrow came to Ampere's life; he lost his father who was executed by revolutionaries. The death of his father brought a huge impact to Ampere. In 1796, he met the daughter of a blacksmith living near Lyon named Julie Carron, and married her in 1799. Afterward, Ampere worked as a professor in Lyon, giving lessons in mathematics, chemistry, languages, and physics. He continued working as a professor even after the death of her wife in 1803. However, her death bothered Ampere for the rest of his life. Ampere passed away at Marseille and buried in the Cimetiere de Montmartre, Paris. In his work Journal et correspondence, we can see his amiability and childlike simplicity of his character.

 Ampere is most known for establishing the relationship between electricity and magnetism, and combining them into a new field called electromagnetism, or electrodynamics. On September 11, 1820, Ampere heard from the discovery of H.C.Orsted that a magnetic needle can be activated by a voltaic current. Only a week later, he came up with a much more advanced version of that kindred phenomena. It was such a amazing development. On the same day, he also discovered that parallel wires carrying currents attract or repel each other. This has later become fundamentals of a field called electrodynamics.

<TITLE>Ammonia</TITLE>
Ammonia is a chemical. Its formula is NH3 . It is made from nitrogen and hydrogen atoms.

 If a goldfish tank is dirty from their waste they can suffer from ammonia burns which cause black spots or patches to come up on their body. Make sure the tank is big enough and filtered.

<TITLE>Amethyst</TITLE>
An amethyst is a sometimes transparent mineral that comes from quartz. It is a type of rock. It is valued because of its violet colour. Even though it is from quartz, it has more iron oxide than any other kind of quartz. Because of this, some experts think that its colour comes from the iron in it. Heating the amethyst either takes away its colour or changes it to a yellow color. Amethysts are found in Brazil, Uruguay, Ontario, and North Carolina. The rock amethyst is the birthstone of the month February.

 Many people believe amethysts protect one from poison, evil, and getting drunk. This is where the name of this rock came from, the Greek word amethustos, meaning "without being drunken". Also they are thought to be good for hearing, recovering from headaches, good dreams, and more. Some catholic popes also wear it around their necks. Also, some roman women thought gems could keep their husbands faithful to them.

Amethysts are also worn because people think it makes them look gentle. The “powers” in the amethyst also includes healing, peace, love, more spirituality, courage, protection from robbers, and happiness.

In the Mohs scale, it is included as the number seven.

 The amethyst is very famous for being one of the main gemstones of Christianity and Catholicism. Some catholic popes wear amethysts around their necks because they think it makes them look pious and more holy. Also in christianity, the Bible says about a breastplate decorated with jewels worn by Aaron, the most high priest of the Hebrews. It had 12 jewels on it, and the amethyst was the third stone in the third row. In the New Testament, according to the Bible, the amethyst became the foundation of the Jerusalem. This description came out in Book of Revelations. Each gemstone was a symbol of something. The amethyst stood for being a gift of tongues and was filled with the desire to please God.

 The amethyst is worn and used for fashion in a number of different ways. It is polished and shaped for rings, earrings, and cuff links. It may be also used for brooches, sometimes being carved into a cluster of grapes. People like the way amethysts look especially when they are put in gold and diamonds.

 In the legends, there are many stories about amethysts. One of them claim how amethysts were legendarily created. According to the story, Bacchus, the Roman god of wine and conviviality, was angry because of something against him and wanted to revenge. He ordered that the first person who was mortal to come across his path would be eaten by tigers. Just at that moment a beautiful maiden named Amethyst came, on her way to worship the goddess Diana. Diana saw what was going to happen and she quickly made Amethyst a stone to save her from the tigers. When Bacchus saw this, he repented and poured wine over the stone, making its color purple.

 The amethyst is worn a lot by kings and queens, and high people. This is because its royal color was purple. When it was found in the Minoan period in Greece , it was polished and shaped like cabochons . Then, it was set in gold. During the 15th century, the French fleur-de-lis brooch could only be worn by the Royal family on special times. The fleur-de-lis design on it is put in with sapphires and amethysts.

<TITLE>Albertosaurus</TITLE>
Albertosaurus was a relative of Tyrannosaurus. The Albertosaurus was smaller than T. rex and lived a few million years earlier. Albertosaurus walked on two legs and had a large head with sharp, saw-toothed teeth. It had two-fingered hands on short arms. Its long tail provided balance and quick turning. It had powerful back legs with clawed, three-toed feet.

Albertosaurus was about 30 feet long, about 11 feet tall at the hips, and up to 3 tons in weight . The lower jaw of Albertosaurus had from 14 and 16 teeth; the upper jaw had 17-19 teeth. It had one row of teeth in each jaw but had at least one replacement tooth growing up from under each tooth.

<TITLE>Assembly language</TITLE>
An assembly language is a programming language that can be used to directly tell the computer what to do. An assembly language is almost exactly like the machine language that a computer can understand, except that it uses words in place of numbers. A computer cannot really understand an assembly program directly. However, it can easily change the program into machine code by replacing the words of the program with the numbers that they stand for. A program that does that is called an assembler. 

Programs written in assembly language are usually made of instructions, which are small tasks that the computer performs when it is running the program. They are called instructions because the programmer uses them to instruct the computer what to do. The part of the computer that follows the instructions is the processor.

The assembly language of a computer is a low-level language, which means that it can only be used to do the simple tasks that a computer can understand directly. In order to perform more complex tasks, one must tell the computer each of the simple tasks that are part of the complex task. For example, a computer does not understand how to print a sentence on its screen. Instead, a program written in assembly must tell it how to do all of the small steps that are involved in printing the sentence. 

Such an assembly program would be composed of many, many instructions, that together do something that seems very simple and basic to a human. This makes it hard for humans to read an assembly program. In contrast, a high-level programming language may have a single instruction such as PRINT "This is a sentence" that will tell the computer to perform all of the small tasks for you.

 When computer scientists first built programmable machines, they programmed them directly in machine code, which is a series of numbers that instructed the computer what to do. Writing machine language was very hard to do and took a long time, so eventually assembly language was made. Assembly language is easier for a human to read and can be written faster, but it is still much harder for a human to use than a high-level programming language which tries to mimic human language.

 To program in machine code, the programmer needs to know what each instruction looks like in binary . Although it is easy for a computer to quickly figure out what machine code means, it is hard for a programmer. Each instruction can have several forms, all of which just look like a bunch of numbers to people. Any mistake that someone makes while writing machine code will only be noticed when the computer does the wrong thing. Figuring out the mistake is hard because most people cannot tell what machine code means by looking at it.

This hexadecimal machine code tells an x86 computer processor to add 42 to the accumulator. It is impossible for a person to read and understand unless that person knows machine code. 

 With assembly language, each instruction can be written as a short word, called a mnemonic, followed by other things like numbers or other short words. The mnemonic is used so that the programmer does not have to remember the exact numbers in machine code needed to tell the computer to do something. Examples of mnemonics in assembly language include add, which adds data, and mov, which moves data from one place to another. Because 'mnemonic' is an uncommon word, the phrase instruction type or just instruction is sometimes used instead, often incorrectly. The words and numbers after the first word give more information about what to do. For instance, things following an add might be what two things to add together and the things following mov say what to move and where to put it.

Assembly language also allows programmers to write the actual data the program uses in easier ways. Most assembly languages have support for easily making numbers and text. In machine code, each different type of number like positive, negative or decimal, would have to be manually converted into binary and text would have to be defined one letter at a time, as numbers.

Assembly language provides what is called an abstraction of machine code. When using assembly, programmers do not need to know the details of what numbers mean to the computer, the assembler figures that out instead. Assembly language actually still lets the programmer use all the features of the processor that they could with machine code. In this sense, assembly language has a very good, rare trait: it has the same ability to express things as the thing it is abstracting while being much easier to use. Because of this, machine code is almost never used as a programming language.

 When programs are finished, they have already been transformed into machine code so that the processor can actually run them. Sometimes, however, if the program has a bug in it, programmers will want to be able to tell what each part of the machine code is doing. Disassemblers are programs that help programmers do that by transforming the machine code of the program back into assembly language, which is much easier to understand. Disassemblers, which turn machine code into assembly language, do the opposite of assemblers, which turn assembly language into machine code.

 An understanding of how computers are organized, how they seem to work at a very low level, is needed to understand how an assembly language program works. At the most simplistic level, computers have three main parts: 

 In most computers, memory is divided up into bytes. Each byte contains 8 bits. Each byte in memory also has an address which is a number that says where the byte is in memory. The first byte in memory has an address of 0, the next one has an address of 1, and so on. Dividing memory into bytes makes it byte addressable because each byte gets a unique address. Addresses of byte addressable memories cannot be used to refer to a single bit of a byte. A byte is the smallest piece of memory that can be addressed.

Even though an address refers to a particular byte in memory, processors allow for using several bytes of memory in a row. The most common use of this feature is to use either 2 or 4 bytes in a row to represent a number, usually an integer. Single bytes are sometimes also used to represent integers, but because they are only 8 bits long, they can only hold 28 or 256 different possible values. Using 2 or 4 bytes in a row raises the number of different possible values to be 216, 65536 or 232, 4294967296, respectively. 

When a program uses a byte or a number of bytes in a row to represent something like a letter, number, or anything else, those bytes are called an object because they are all part of the same thing. Even though objects are all stored in identical bytes of memory, they are treated as though they have a 'type', which says how the bytes should be understood: either as an integer or a character or some other type . Machine code can also be thought of as a type that is interpreted as instructions. The notion of a type is very, very important because it defines what things can and can’t be done to the object and how to interpret the bytes of the object. For instance, it is not valid to store a negative number in a positive number object and it is not valid to store a fraction in an integer.

An address that points to a multi-byte object is the address to the first byte of that object – the byte that has the lowest address. As an aside, one important thing to note is that you can’t tell what the type of an object is - or even its size - by its address. In fact, you can’t even tell what type an object is by looking at it. An assembly language program needs to keep track of which memory addresses hold which objects, and how big those objects are. A program that does so is type safe because it only does things to objects that are safe to do on their type. A program that doesn’t will probably not work properly. Note that most programs do not actually explicitly store what the type of an object is, they just access objects consistently - the same object is always treated as the same type.

 The processor runs instructions, which are stored as machine code in main memory. As well as being able to access memory for storage, most processors have a few small, fast, fixed-size spaces for holding objects that are currently being worked with. These spaces are called registers. Processors usually execute three types of instructions, although some instructions can be a combination of these types. Below are some examples of each type in x86 assembly language.

In this assembly language, square brackets around a number mean that the number should be used as an address to the data that should be used. The use of an address to point to data is called indirection. In this next example, without the square brackets, another register, bx, actually gets the value 20 loaded into it.

Because no indirection was used, the actual value itself was put into the register. 

 Here, the memory at address 1000h gets the value of ax. If this example is executed right after the previous one, the 2 bytes at 1000h and 1001h will be a 2 byte integer with the value of 20.

Here, 42 and ax are added together and the result is stored back in ax. In x86 assembly it is also possible to combine a memory access and mathematical operation like this:

This instruction adds the value of the 2 byte integer stored at 1000h to ax and stores the answer in ax.

This instruction computes the or of the contents of the registers ax and bx and stores the result back into ax.

Usually, instructions are executed in the order they appear in memory, which is the order they are typed in the assembly code. The processor just executes them one after another. However, in order for processors to do complicated things, they need to execute different instructions based on what the data they were given is. The ability of processors to execute different instructions depending on something's outcome is called branching. Instructions that decide what the next instruction should be are called branch instructions.

In this example, suppose someone wants to calculate the amount of paint they will need to paint a square with a certain side length. However, due to economy of scale the paint store will not sell them any less than amount of paint needed to paint a 100 x 100 square.

That algorithm can be expressed in the following code where ax is the side length.

This example introduces several new things, but the first two instructions are familiar. They copy the value of ax into bx and then subtract 100 from bx. 

One of the new things in this example is called a label, a concept found in assembly languages in general. Labels can be anything the programmer wants . In this example, the label is 'continue'. It is interpreted by the assembler as the address of an instruction. In this case, it is the address of mult ax. 

Another new concept is that of flags. On x86 processors, many instructions set 'flags' in the processor that can be used by the next instruction to decide what to do. In this case, if bx was less than 100, sub will set a flag that says the result was less than zero.

The next instruction is jge which is short for 'Jump if Greater than or Equal to'. It is a branch instruction. If the flags in the processor specify that the result was greater than or equal to zero, instead of just going to the next instruction the processor will jump to the instruction at the continue label, which is mul ax.

This example works fine, but it is not what most programmers would write. The subtract instruction set the flag correctly, but it also changes the value it operates on, which required the ax to be copied into bx. Most assembly languages allow for comparison instruction that do not change any of the arguments they're passed, but still set the flags properly and x86 assembly is no exception.

Now, instead of subtracting 100 from ax, seeing if that number is less than zero, and assigning it back to ax, ax is left unchanged. The flags are still set the same way, and the jump is still taken in the same situations.

 While input and output are a fundamental part of computing, there is no one way they're done in assembly language. This is because the way I/O works depends on the set up of the computer and the operating system its running, not just what kind of processor it has. In the example section the Hello World example uses MS-DOS operating system calls and the example after it uses BIOS calls.

It is possible to do I/O in assembly language. Indeed, assembly language can generally express anything that a computer is capable of doing. However, even though there are instructions to add and branch in assembly language that will always do the same thing there are no instructions in assembly language that always do I/O.

The important thing to note is that the way that I/O works is not part of any assembly language because it is not part of how the processor works.

Even though assembly language is not directly run by the processor - machine code is, it still has a lot to do with it. Each processor family supports different features, instructions, rules for what the instructions can do, and rules for what combination of instructions are allowed where. Because of this, different types of processors still need different assembly languages.

Because each version of assembly language is tied to a processor family, it lacks something called portability. Something that has portability or is portable can be easily transferred from one type of computer to another. While other types of programming languages are portable, assembly language, in general, is not.

As a result of these drawbacks, high-level languages like Pascal, C, and C++ are used for most projects instead. They allow programmers to express their ideas more directly instead of having to worry about telling the processor what to do every step of the way. They're called high-level because the ideas the programmer can express in the same amount code are more complicated.

Programmers writing code in compiled high level languages use a program called a compiler to transform their code into assembly language. Compilers are much harder to write than assemblers are. Also, high-level languages do not always allow programmers to use all the features of the processor. This is because high-level languages are designed to support all processor families. Unlike assembly languages, that only support one type of processor, high-level languages are portable.

Even though compilers are more complicated than assemblers, decades of making and researching compilers has made them very good. Now, there is not much reason to use assembly language anymore for most projects, because compilers can usually figure out how to express programs in assembly language as well or better than programmers.

adosseg .model small .stack 100h

.data hello_message db 'Hello, World!',0dh,0ah,'$'

.code main proc mov ax,@data mov ds,ax

A function that prints a number to the screen using BIOS interrupts written in NASM x86 assembly. Modular code is possible to write in assembly, but it takes extra effort. Note that anything that comes after a semicolon on a line is a comment and is ignored by the assembler. Putting comments in assembly language code is very important because large assembly language programs are so hard to understand.

gloop:	inc	si		; length of string 	mov	dx, 0		; zero dx 	div	cx		; divide by base 	cmp	dx, 10		; is it ge 10? 	jge	num 	add	dx, '0'		; add zero to dx 	jmp	anum num:	add	dx, 	; hex value, add 'A' to dx - 10. anum:	push	dx		; put dx onto stack. 	cmp	ax, 0		; should we continue? 	jne	gloop

<TITLE>Amber</TITLE>
Amber, also called Allingite or Burmite , is the common name for fossil resin that is appreciated for its inherent and interesting mixture of colours and it is widely used for the manufacture of ornamental objects. 

Although not mineralized, it is sometimes considered and used as a gemstone. Neopagans often use the stone for healing. This stone was called Freya's tears by the ancient Norse. Most of the world's amber is in the range of 30–90 million years old. Semi-fossilized resin or sub-fossil amber is called copal.

Amber consists of several resinous bodies more or less soluble in alcohol, ether and chloroform, associated with an insoluble bituminous substance. 

 Baltic amber is found as irregular nodules in a marine sand, known as blue earth, in the Lower Oligocene strata of Sambia in Kaliningrad Oblast, where it is now systematically mined.

The resin can contain, in addition to the beautifully preserved plant-structures, remains of insects, spiders, annelids, frogs, crustaceans and other small organisms which became enveloped while it was fluid. In most cases the organic structure has disappeared, leaving only a cavity, with perhaps a trace of chitin.

Although amber is found along the shores of a large part of the Baltic Sea and the North Sea, the great amber-producing country is the promontory of Sambia, now part of Russia. About 90% of the world's extractable amber is located in the Kaliningrad region of Russia on the Baltic Sea. Amber is extensively used for beads and other ornaments, and for cigar-holders and the mouth-pieces of pipes. 

When gradually heated in an oil-bath, amber becomes soft and flexible. Two pieces of amber may be united by smearing the surfaces with linseed oil, heating them, and then pressing them together while hot. Cloudy amber may be clarified in an oil-bath, as the oil fills the numerous pores to which the turbidity is due. Small fragments, formerly thrown away or used only for varnish, are now utilized on a large scale in the formation of "ambroid" or "pressed amber". The pieces are carefully heated with exclusion of air and then compressed into a uniform mass by intense hydraulic pressure; the softened amber being forced through holes in a metal plate. The product is extensively used for the production of cheap jewellery and articles for smoking. 

Amber was much valued as an ornamental material in very early times. 

<TITLE>Army</TITLE>
The army is the part of a country's military that fights on the ground. People in the army are called soldiers. Many modern armies have vehicles such as tanks, airplanes, and helicopters to help soldiers fight on the ground.

A soldier may be a volunteer , or he may be drafted . Forcing men to join the army is called conscription or draft. Voluntary armies tend to be small by numbers, but high in morale and quality. Drafted armies are large, but often lacking in morale and in quality: it may be very difficult to force someone to risk his life against his will. Often drafted armies use death penalty to ensure the soldiers will fight.

A soldier does many things, from shooting enemies, to using binoculars to find out where enemies are. They are used to defend their country, or attack another country's army. It is difficult, and a soldier must be in good shape, both physically and mentally. They almost always move together, and that way the team can do more things, in a safer way. They may be assigned to certain places to guard, or they may be told to search a place, or even attack it. That is up to their commander. Every soldier answers to someone else, so that way, everything is organized.

 A soldier is supplied with weapons, such as guns, knives, and other simple gear for surviving in the battlefield, such as food, water, clothes, and tents. They must keep good care of the items.

 Before a soldier joins the army, he must qualify to be in it first. The person is put through tests, so that the army will know if the recruit can do it or not. This is sometimes called 'boot camp'. He must complete mental tests, and physical tests. It depends on where he is testing that will tell him how hard it will be. He will also take tests to determine what job he will do in the military. For instance, he may work with computers or be a cook for the soldiers, or he may be very good with a rifle and be a sniper.

<TITLE>Alligatoridae</TITLE>
Alligators and Caimans make up the second largest family of the crocodilians, Alligatoridae. There are 4 genera and about 7 known species of Alligatorids. Alligatorids range in size depending on species. The Chinese alligator is usually about while the American Alligator is usually . The largest American alligator was long. The Black Caiman of the Amazon can reach as much as .

Alligatorids live in the southern United States, Central America, northern South America and near the Yangzee river in China. 

 There are several differences between alligators and crocodiles. Alligators have shorter and wider snouts. They prefer fresh water to saltwater. Crocodiles have a gland that removes much of the salt. Alligators do not have this gland. In alligators, the fourth tooth of their lower jaw fits into a pit in the upper jaw. In crocodilians this tooth fits into a groove on the outside of the jaw. Alligators are also less aggressive than crocodilids. Usually only the largest of the species are a threat to humans.

<TITLE>Alder</TITLE>
Alder is the common name for about 30 kinds of trees and shrubs of the Alnus genus. They are a part of the birch family . Most of them are smaller in size. Leaves are mostly deciduous, only very few alders are evergreen. 

The best known species are the Black Alder, which can be seen throughout Europe. The largest is probably the Red Alder, native to North America. It reaches about 32-35 metres in height. The widespread Green Alder is a shrub, rarely more than 5m high. 

Alder is a preferred tree for bees, especially in spring. It is also used to make charcoal. 

<TITLE>Arachnophobia</TITLE>
Arachnophobia is a fear of spiders. It is a very common phobia - many people suffer from it. People who have it often feel uncomfortable in areas where there may be spiders.

<TITLE>Alabaster</TITLE>
Alabaster is a name applied to varieties of two distinct minerals: gypsum and calcite . The former is the alabaster of the present day; the latter is generally the alabaster of the ancients. 

<TITLE>Apostle</TITLE>
An apostle is a messenger and ambassador.

<TITLE>Ahab</TITLE>
Ahab or Ach'av or Achab in Douay-Rheims was King of Israel and the son of Omri. He is written about in the Books of Kings and the Books of Chronicles.

Ahab son of Omri did "more evil in the eyes of the LORD than any of those before him" , as it is written in the Bible. Many think - and say - that it is probably because of his evil wife, Queen Jezebel, daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians. She was even more sinful than Ahab, and comes out in the Bible, commanding Ahab to do most of the things she wants. She serves the idol Baal and tries to make Ahab and all the Israelites worship it as well. One of Ahab's most famous enemies is an old prophet named Elijah. He continually rebukes Ahab for being so disobeying to the LORD, and when Ahab summoned all the prophets of Baal against Elijah at Mount Carmel, and set two altars for them, Elijah won by calling on God and letting fire come and burn the sacrifice, and the prophets of Baal were immediately killed by the Israelites. Importantly, even here Ahab does nothing, either to stop or help Elijah.

 Once, there was a quite well-known war between Ben-Hadad king of Aram and King Ahab. Ben-Hadad came and, "with thirty-two kings with horses and chariots" , he attacked Samaria. He said to King Ahab: "Your silver and gold are mine, and the best of your wives and children are mine." This King Ahab agreed with--but after that, Ben-Hadad sent another more demanding command: "I sent to demand your silver and gold, your wives and children. But about this time tomorrow I am going to send my officials to search your palace and the houses of your officials. They will seize everything you value and carry it away."--and King Ahab grew annoyed. He rejected that command, and so Ben-Hadad decided to battle against Ahab. And after that the LORD sent a prophet and said, "Do you see this vast army? I will give it into your hand today, and then you will know that I am the LORD." And he also added that the young officers of the commanders will do it, and that King Ahab would start the battle.

Encouraged by this, Ahab took the young officers of the comanders, 232 men. Then he assembled the rest of the Israelites, 7,000 in all. They set out at noon while Ben-Hadad and the 32 kings with him were in their tents getting drunk, and defeated them all, because God was with them. After that, later at spring, as a prophet prophesied to Ahab, Ben-Hadad came again, mustering all his army. They came to the valleys, declaring triumphantly that God was a "gods of hills" and that was why the Israelites were strong; and now that they were in the valleys, they would surely win the battle. But God wanted to prove that he was the God of everything and not only of the hills, so he helped Ahab defeat them there, too. Ahab then spared Ben-Hadad's life later, causing God to get angry at Ahab and say through a prophet --"This is what the LORD says: 'You have set free a man that I had determined should die. Therefore it is your life for his life, your people for his people.'" 

 Ahab also once did a great sin that the LORD was very angry at, and it included a vineyard of Naboh the Jezreelite. He wanted a vineyard belonging to Naboth the Jezreelite, because it was in Jezreel and close to his palace. So Ahab said to Naboth , "Let me have your vineyard to use for a vegetable garden, since it is close to my palace. In exchange I will give you a better vineyard or, if you prefer, I will pay you whatever it is worth." But Naboth was unwilling because "the LORD forbid" that he should give Ahab "the inheritance of his fathers". So Ahab was very angry and sulky, and when he was at home he wouldn't eat, and pouted on his bed. Then Jezebel came over and asked , "Why are you so sullen? Why won't you eat?" And Ahab explained to her the situation. Jezebeel told him to get up, and said that she would get him the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. So she wrote some letters in Ahab's name, placed his seal on them, and sent them to the elders and nobles who lived in Naboth's city. It said: "Proclaim a day of fasting and seat Naboth in a prominent place among the people. But seat two scoundrels opposite him and have them testify that he has cursed both God and the king. Then take him out and stone him to death." So the elders and nobles did as she told him to, and Naboth died a bitter, meaningless death. Then Jezebel declared to Ahab that Naboth was "no longer alive, but dead" and Ahab got up and took possession of Nahab's vineyard. The Lord was very angry at Ahab for this, and said to Elijah the Tishbite, a prophet--"Go down to meet Ahab the king of Israel, who rules in Samaria. He is now in Naboth's vineyard, where he has gone to take possession of it. Say to him, "This is what the LORD says: 'have you not murdered a man and seized his property?' Then say to him, 'This is what the LORD says, in the place where dogs licked up Naboth's blood, dogs will lick up your blood - yes, yours!'" King Ahab said to Elijah, when he met him , "So you have found me, my enemy!" Elijah replied, "I have found you, because you have sold yourself to do evil in the eyes of the LORD. 'I am going to bring disaster on you. I will consume your descendants and cut off from Ahab every last male in Israel - slave or free. I will make your house like that of Jeroboam son of Nebat and that of Baasha son of Ahijah, becauase you ahve provoked me to anger and have caused Israel to sin.' And also concerning Jezebel the LORD says: 'Dogs will devour Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel.' Dogs will eat those belonging to Ahab who die in the city, and the birds of the air will feed on those who die in the country." At hearing this, Ahab grew afraid, and humbled himself by tearing his clothes, putting on sackcloth, and fasting. He 'lay in sackcloth and went around meekly.' The LORD felt compassionate, and said to Elijah, "Have you noticed how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself, I will not bring this disaster in his day, but I will bring it on his house in the days of his son."

According to the Bible, for three years there was no war between Aram and Israel. But in the third year, when Jehoshaphat king of Judah went down to see Ahab , Ahab said, "Let's go retake Ramoth Gilead from the king of Aram! Will you go with me?" Jehoshaphat replied, "I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses." For this, he would later be rebuke by the prophet Jehu. But he added: "First seek the counsel of the Lord."

King Ahab called together the prophets—"about four hundred men"—and asked them, "Shall I go to attack Ramoth Gilead or not?" And they said, "Go." These prophets were not really prophets, but simply did their "job" by saying things that they thought would make the king happy - not what the Lord really said. King Jehoshaphat saw that the 400 prophets were not to be trusted, and asked to see a real prophet of the Lord, saying, "Is there not a prophet of the Lord here...?" King Ahab said that there was Micaiah son of Imlah, but "...he never prophesies anything good about me, but always bad." Jehoshaphat wanted to see him, so Ahab called him. Meanwhile, Zedekiah son of Kenaanah, one of the 400 prophets, had made iron horns and he cried, "This is what the Lord says: 'With these you will gore the Arameans until they are destroyed.'" All the other prophets said the same thing. Even the messenger who had gone to call Micaiah said to him, "Let your word agree with theirs..."

When Micaiah came, he said, "Attack, and be victorious ." But Ahab probably saw that Micaiah was not being serious, and he said, "...tell me nothing but the truth..." So Micaiah said that he saw the Lord sitting on his throne in heaven, and that the Lord had put a "lying spirit" in the mouths of all the prophets, because they did not love the truth and had chosen to speak out of their own hearts. At this, one of the prophets, Zedekiah son of Kenaanah was so enraged he went to Micaiah and slapped him in the face, saying sarcastically, "Which way did the spirit from the Lord go when he went from me to speak to you?" Micaiah replied, "You will find out... you go to hide in an inner room." King Ahab put Micaiah and prison and went to battle in disguise, thinking that this way nobody would know who he was and so Micaiah's prophecy would not be fulfilled . But one of the soldiers shot him by mistake, and he had a deep wound and died in his chariot, watching the battle sadly. As in the prophecy of Elijah, the dogs licked up his blood. After him, his sons succeeded as king, Ahaziah and Jehoram.

<TITLE>Algol</TITLE>
Algol, also known as the Demon Star, is a bright star in the Perseus constellation. It is one of the best known double stars that can only be seen in spectroscopes, the first star of its type discovered, and one of the first variable stars to be discovered before it explodes. Algol is made of three stars and the brightest is Persei A. These stars partly eclipse each other every 2 days, 20 hours and 49 minutes for 10 hours. 

<TITLE>Amazing Grace</TITLE>
"Amazing Grace" is a well-known Christian hymn. The words were written late in 1772 by Englishman John Newton.

Amazing grace, how sweet the sound That sav’d a wretch like me! I once was lost, but now am found, Was blind, but now I see.

’Twas grace that taught my heart to fear, And grace my fears reliev’d; How precious did that grace appear, The hour I first believ’d!

Thro’ many dangers, toils and snares, I have already come; ’Tis grace has brought me safe thus far, And grace will lead me home.

The Lord has promis’d good to me, His word my hope secures; He will my shield and portion be, As long as life endures.

Yes, when this flesh and heart shall fail, And mortal life shall cease; I shall possess, within the veil, A life of joy and peace.

The earth shall soon dissolve like snow, The sun forbear to shine; But God, who call’d me here below, Will be forever mine.

<TITLE>AOL</TITLE>
America Online is a U.S.-based online service provider and Internet service provider. It has been in business since 1985.

 AOL Instant Messenger is a service which allows to communicate with any user currently online. AIM has millions of users worldwide. There are also other computer programs that can be used to talk with your AIM account, for example Trillian, Pidgin, Digsby, and AIM+. 

 Other AOL products are AOL Spyware Protection, AOL Safety and Security Center, ICQ, AOl Computer Check-Up, AOL Explorer,AOL TopSpeed, AOL Dialer, AOL One-Click Fixes and AOL Openride.

<TITLE>Anno Domini</TITLE>
Anno Domini , shortened as AD or A.D., is used to refer to the years after the birth of Jesus. AD is also a shortening for Christian Era. Similarly, Before Christ, shortened as BC or B.C., is used in the English language to refer to all years before the start of the time period Anno Domini. The system for working out the years was invented by Dionysius Exiguus in about 525 AD.

<TITLE>Absolute zero</TITLE>
In theory, absolute zero is the temperature where the particles of matter stop moving. Absolute zero is impossible to achieve, because all particles move, even if it's just a small vibration. Some people have gotten very close to absolute zero, but the record temperature was 100 PK above absolute zero. 

The Kelvin and Rankine temperature scales are defined so that absolute zero is 0 kelvins or 0 degrees Rankine . The Celsius and Fahrenheit scales are defined so that absolute zero is −273.15 °C or −459.67 °F.

At this stage the pressure of the particles is zero. If we plot a graph to it, we can see that the temperature of the particles is zero. The temperature cannot go down any further. And no, the particles cannot move in "reverse" either because as the movement of particles is vibration, vibrating in reverse would be nothing but simply vibrating again. The closer the temperature of an object gets to absolute zero, the less resistive the material is to electricity therefore it will conduct electricity almost perfectly, with no measurable resistance. 

<TITLE>Adiabatic process</TITLE>
Adiabatic cooling is the energy exchanged when clouds form. For example, the hot air rises and the cold air sinks . 

<TITLE>Animism</TITLE>
Animism is a belief common in many different religions and philosophies. It is the belief that there are spiritual beings in plants and animals. Many animistic religions also believe that acts of nature, for example - the wind and rain, and geographic features, for example - mountains and rivers, have spirits in them.

<TITLE>Antonio Vivaldi</TITLE>
Antonio Vivaldi was an Italian composer. He was the most important composer in Italy at the end of the Baroque period. He wrote more than 400 concertos for various instruments, especially for the violin. He taught at a school for orphaned girls. The music education there was very good and Vivaldi wrote a lot of his music for his pupils to play. His most popular work is the group of four violin concertos called “The Four Seasons”. Each concerto describes a season: Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter.

<TITLE>Aar</TITLE>
The Aar is a tributary of the Rhine and is the longest river that both comes up from and ends completely inside of Switzerland.

<TITLE>Abraham</TITLE>
Abraham is a character in the Bible. There, he is said to be the father of all Jews. This is because he is their ancestor. The story about Abraham is a part of the Jewish, Christian and Islamic religions. 

Abraham is the father of Isaac and the grandfather of Jacob. Abraham is believed to be the founding patriarch of the Israelites, Ishmaelites and Edomites. Abraham was the third son of Terah and the grandson of Nahor. Abraham's older brothers were named Nahor and Haran.

<TITLE>Acapulco</TITLE>
Acapulco is a town and sea port on the Pacific coast of Mexico, 300 km southwest from Mexico City. Acapulco is located on a deep, semi-circular bay. It is a stop for shipping and cruising lines running between Panama, and San Francisco, California, USA. In 2005 the estimated population was 722,499 people.

Its name is a Nahuatl word, meaning "plain of dense reeds". The city has been a port since the 16th century. 

<TITLE>Asgard</TITLE>
In Norse mythology, Asgard is the home of the gods . It is a different place than the home of the mortals, Midgard. 

The plain of Idavoll is the centrer of Asgard. The Æsir meet there talk about important issues. The male gods meet in a hall called Gladsheim. The female goddesses in a hall called Vingólf. 

It is also an advanced alien race in the science fiction series Stargate SG-1.

<TITLE>Apollo program</TITLE>
The Apollo program was a project by the United States' National Aeronautics and Space Administration . The goal was to send a human to explore the Moon and bring him home to earth safe. It was started by U.S. President John F. Kennedy in 1961. The first person to walk on the Moon was Neil Armstrong of Apollo 11 on June 20, 1969. 

One reason the program started was that the Soviet Union was the first country to send a person into outer space. Since this was during the Cold War, many in the U.S. thought that the U.S. needed to stay ahead of the USSR in space exploration.

The Apollo program ended in 1972. After that, NASA began to work on the Space Shuttle program, the International Space Station, and many unmanned space exploration projects.

<TITLE>Assault</TITLE>
An assault is a crime or tort in which somebody threatens or attempts to hurt someone else.

In some states or legal codes, the words "assault" and "battery" may mean the same thing.

<TITLE>Alamanni</TITLE>
The Alamanni, Allemanni, or Alemanni used to be a band of west Germanic tribes found in the upper Main, which is the longest tributary of the Rhine.

<TITLE>American Stock Exchange</TITLE>
The American Stock Exchange is a stock exchange in New York City. It was created on Broad Street near Exchange Place, during colonial times. The stock exchange is currently owned by its own members. 

<TITLE>Alfred Russel Wallace</TITLE>
Alfred Russel Wallace was a British naturalist, explorer, biologist and social activist. He is best known for proposing a theory of natural selection. This was published in 1858 together with Charles Darwin's idea.

Wallace did extensive natural history exploring. He went first to the Amazon River basin with Henry Walter Bates, and later to Malaya and Indonesia. He wrote books on both these adventures. While in Indonesia he drew the Wallace Line which divides Indonesia into two parts. On one side are animals of Australasia. On the other side are species mostly of Asian origin. He wrote a wonderful book on the distribution of animals. 

 After a few years of working as a railway surveyor with his brother, Wallace's life was changed by meeting Henry Walter Bates in Leicester in 1847. 

 Wallace and Bates discussed the idea of an expedition to the Amazon. The plan was to defray expenses by sending specimens back to London, where an agent would sell them for a commission. Also, for the travellers to "gather facts towards solving the problem of the origin of species", as Wallace put it in a letter to Bates. The two friends, who were both by now experienced amateur entomologists, met in London to prepare themselves by viewing South American plants and animals in the main collections.

Bates and Wallace sailed from Liverpool in April 1848, arriving in Pará at the end of May. For the first year they settled in a villa near the city, collecting birds and insects. After that they agreed to collect independently.

Wallace continued charting the Amazon for four years, collecting specimens and making notes on the peoples, the languages, the geography, flora, and fauna. On 12 July 1852, Wallace embarked for England on the brig Helen. After twenty-eight days at sea, balsam in the ship's cargo caught fire and the crew was forced to abandon ship. All of the specimens Wallace had on the ship, most of his collection, were lost. He could only save part of his diary and a few sketches. Wallace and the crew spent ten days in an open boat before being picked up by the brig Jordeson.

 From 1854 to 1862, age 31 to 39, Wallace travelled through the Dutch East Indies , to collect specimens for sale and to study nature. Wallace collected more than 125,000 specimens in the Dutch East Indies . More than a thousand of them represented species new to science. 

His observations of the clear zoological differences across a narrow strait in the archipelago led to his proposing the zoogeographical boundary now known as the Wallace Line. Bali and Lombok were two islands in the archipelago only 17 miles apart at the widest , roughly the same size and with the same climate, soil, elevation and aspect. Yet their flora and fauna were so different. 

"In this archipelago there are two distinct faunas rigidly circumscribed, which differ as much as do those of Africa and South America... yet there is nothing on the map or on the face of the islands to mark their limits. The boundary line passes between islands closer together than others belonging to the same group. I believe the western part to be a separated portion of continental Asia, while the eastern is a fragmentary prolongation of a former west Pacific continent.

Why was it, he wondered, that the animals and plants on the Bali side of the channel were of Asian types, while those on the Lombok side were Australasian in type? This had to mean that the western group had evolved from common western stock, while the eastern group had evolved from a common eastern stock. 

While he was exploring the archipelago, he refined his thoughts about evolution and had his famous insight on natural selection. In 1858 he sent an article outlining his theory to Darwin; it was published, along with a description of Darwin's own theory, in the same year.

Accounts of his studies and adventures there were eventually published in 1869 as The Malay Archipelago. It became one of the most popular natural history travel journals of the 19th century. It was praised by Charles Darwin and Charles Lyell and by others, such as the novelist Joseph Conrad, who called it his "favorite bedside companion".

 Unlike Darwin, Wallace began his career as a travelling naturalist already believing in evolution. Both he and Bates had read Vestiges, a controversial work of popular science, published anonymously in 1844. This advocated an evolutionary origin for the solar system, the earth, and living things. He also read Malthus's Principle of population, which he says "twenty years later gave me the long-sought clue to the effective agent in the evolution of organic species". He meant by that natural selection.

Wallace wrote his ideas on the small isle of Ternate, in what was then the Dutch East Indies. He was suffering from malaria. While the natives looked after him, his thoughts turned to Malthus's book. "I thought of clear exposition of the 'positive checks to increase' - disease, accidents, wars, famine – which keep down the population... It then occurred to me that the same causes, or their equivalents, are continually acting in the case of animals also... Why do some die and some live? And the answer came clearly, that on the whole the best fitted live... Then it suddenly flashed upon me, that this self-acting process would necessarily improve the race..." This was the origin of his letter to Darwin, which set out the idea of natural selection.

In 1864, Wallace published a paper, The origin of human races and the antiquity of Man deduced from the theory of natural selection, applying the theory to human beings. Huxley had already published his view that evolution applied to mankind as it did to other living things.

Wallace thought that natural selection could not account for mathematical, artistic, or musical genius, as well as metaphysical musings, and wit and humour. He eventually said that something in "the unseen universe of Spirit" had interceded at least three times in history. The first was the creation of life from inorganic matter. The second was the introduction of consciousness in the higher animals. And the third was the generation of the higher mental faculties in mankind. He also believed that the purpose of the universe was the development of the human spirit. 

Many, including Huxley, Hooker, and Darwin himself, were highly critical of these ideas. As one historian of science has pointed out, Wallace's views in this area were at odds with two major tenets of Darwinism. These are: evolution does not have a goal, and it is not aimed at or centered around mankind. It is thought by most biographers that his thinking on the evolution of man was influenced by his adoption of spiritualism, which happened at the same time.

 Wallace was not a believer in revealed religion of any kind, but he did believe in spiritualism. This has puzzled biographers, who struggle to think why such a man would believe in spirits. Early in his life, he experimented with hypnosis, which was then doubted and criticised. He used some of his students in Leicester as subjects, with considerable success. Apparently, this persuaded him not to reject ideas which were doubted. Even when Huxley told him that one of his favourite mediums was a proven fraud, he refused to believe it. He preferred the evidence of his own experience.

Wallace's public support of spiritualism, and his defence of spiritualist mediums against allegations of fraud, damaged his scientific reputation. It strained his relationships with friends such as Bates, Huxley and Darwin, who felt he was overly credulous. Others became openly hostile to Wallace over the issue. Wallace and other scientists who defended spiritualism were subject to much criticism from the press, with The Lancet, the leading English medical journal, being particularly harsh. The controversy affected the public's idea of Wallace for the rest of his career, though he was always respected in other ways.

 Wallace had a wide range of interests, and wrote books about all of them. He wrote against vaccination, for phrenology, for spiritualism, for land nationalisation, against the moon having canals, and for social change and the progress and improvement of mankind. He did not believe in religion, but he did believe in spiritualism. He was a radical in politics, economics and social reform. He was a kind and honourable person, but he could be a tough opponent if he thought something unfair was going on. Even the titles of some of his books were sensational, as for example:

 Wallace wrote about 22 books, depending on how one counts them.

<TITLE>Australian Labor Party</TITLE>
The Australian Labor Party is one of the two major political parties in Australia. The party was made in 1891; it is the oldest political party in Australia. It is currently in power in Australia, meaning that it runs the Government. Its current leader and Australia's Prime Minister is Kevin Rudd. They are a liberal party, in direct opposition to their major opponents, the Liberal Party of Australia. 

<TITLE>Aachen</TITLE>
Aachen is a German city in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It has about 260,000 inhabitants and a well-known university, the Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule .

 The Romans built a spa over hot water springs here in ancient times. 

In the Middle Ages, it was the capital city of the Frankish emperor, Charlemagne. The city was called Aix-la-Chapelle by the French. 

Charlemagne ordered the building of a cathedral in 786 AD. He was buried in a tomb in this cathedral. German emperors were crowned in the cathedral in Aachen until 1531.

European countries made two important peace agreements in Aachen. In 1668, the first treaty ended the War of Devolution between France and the alliance of England, Holland and Sweden. The treaty allowed France to keep most of the towns it had captured in Flanders the year before. In 1748, the second treaty ended the War of the Austrian Succession. In this war, France, Prussia, and other nations tried to take territory from the Austrian Empire. The treaty said that Maria Theresa of Austria was the ruler of these territories. It also gave Prussia the territory of Silesia. 

Since 1972, Aachen has been part of the Cologne Government Region.

<TITLE>Agate</TITLE>
Agate is a kind of quartz and it is a mineral. Agate can come in many different kinds and colors. 

<TITLE>Aspirin</TITLE>
Aspirin is the brandname of acetylsalicylic acid . It has many uses, but is most commonly used as a pain killer, or used to reduce fever or inflammation. It also has an antiplatelet effect - it reduces the number of platelets in the blood which reduces blood clotting- in that function it is used to prevent heart attacks and cancer.

There are some possible side-effects to this drug, for example high doses can create damage to the kidneys and children can develop Reye's syndrome through the use of this drug which causes the liver to become fatty and not work properly and also the brain to become enlarged. It can be fatal, however most children with Reye's syndrome survive with treatment.

People with lung, kidney disease, gout, hyperuricemia , hemophilia, diabeties or high blood pressure should not take aspirin except on the advice of a qualified medical professional. Nor should people who are allergic to it, to ibuprofen or to naproxen sodium. People with asthma where attacks are brought about by aspirin should avoid using aspirin. 

The brand name is trademarked by the German firm Bayer.

<TITLE>Ainu people</TITLE>
The Ainu are an ethnic group. There are over 150,000 Ainu today. Almost all of them live in Japan, but they have their own culture and language that is different from the Japanese.

<TITLE>Acropolis</TITLE>
The word acropolis means the edge of a town or a high city.

<TITLE>Aeneas</TITLE>
Aeneas was a Trojan prince and hero. His father was Anchises, his mother was the Greek goddess Aphrodite . Both Homer and Vergil mention him in their stories. Vergil wrote a whole series of books about him. These books are called Aeneis in their original Latin. The usual English translation of the title is Aeneid. The books are about how the city of Rome came to be. They start with Aeneas carrying his father out of the burning Troy, and end with Romulus and Remus founding Rome .

William Shakespeare also wrote a story mentioning Aeneas. Christopher Marlowe wrote a play about Aeneas and Dido, the queen who fell in love with him. There is also an opera about Dido and Aeneas, written by Henry Purcell.

<TITLE>Amaranth</TITLE>
Amaranth is a is a cosmopolitan genus of herbs. Approximately 60 species are recognized, with inflorescences and foliage ranging from purple and red to gold. 

Although several species are often considered weeds, people around the world value amaranths as leaf vegetables, cereals, and ornamentals.

<TITLE>Agamemnon</TITLE>
Agamemnon was a person in Greek mythology. He was the son of King Atreus of Mycenae and Aerope. He was the brother of Menelaos. He was King of Mycenae.

His wife was Klytaimnestra, and with her his children were Iphigeneia, Elektra, Orestes and Chrysothemis.

In the Trojan War he was the highest leader of the Greek armies.

After the Trojan War he took Kassandra as a slave. She warned him that his wife Klytaimnestra would kill him, but he would not believe her. At home, Agamemnon was killed by Klytaimnestra and her lover Aegisthos.

<TITLE>Aga Khan III</TITLE>
Aga Khan III, GCSI, GCMG, GCIE, GCVO, PC was the 48th Imam of the Shia Ismaili Muslims. He was one of the founders and the first president of the All-India Muslim League, and served as President of the League of Nations from 1937-38.

<TITLE>Ajax the Lesser</TITLE>
Ajax the Lesser was a Greek hero from the Trojan War, who was the son of Oïleus.

<TITLE>Alexander I of Scotland</TITLE>
Alexander I of Scotland was the son of Malcolm Canmore and Saint Margaret. He became the King of Scotland in 1107. In the same year he married Sybilla, who was an illegitimate daughter of Henry I of England.

<TITLE>Alexander III of Scotland</TITLE>
Alexander III , King of Scots, was born at Roxburgh on 4 September 1241 and died on 19 March, 1286. 

He was the only son of Alexander II with his second wife, Marie de Coucy. Alexander's father died on 6 July 1249 and he officially became king at the age of eight. This happened at Scone on 13 July, 1249.

<TITLE>Alexios I Komnenos</TITLE>
Alexios I Komnenos or Alexius I Comnenus , Byzantine emperor , was the son of John Komnenos and Anna Dalassena. He was the nephew of Isaac I Komnenos . The military, financial and territorial recovery of the Byzantine Empire known as Komnenian restoration began in his time.

<TITLE>Andrew Jackson</TITLE>
Andrew Jackson was a hero in the War of 1812. He became the seventh President of the United States of America. He was the first Democrat and is on the Twenty Dollar Bill. His nickname was "Old Hickory".

He is famous for forcing Native Americans to move west in the Trail of Tears & around Florida everglades. He supported a small government and opposed the Bank of the United States. He supported a popular democracy where people directly elect their leaders instead of the Electoral College electing them. His legacy was mixed. While some consider him a man of the people because he supported popular democracy, others believe he was a tyrant because is owned slaves and forced the Native Americans to move.

<TITLE>Andrew Johnson</TITLE>
Andrew Johnson was the 16th Vice-President and 17th President of the United States. Before being President, he was a Governor and U.S. Senator from Tennessee. He became President in 1865 after Abraham Lincoln was killed. He was a Democrat who had been elected with Lincoln on a "National Union" ticket, and he didn't get along with Congress, which was run by Republicans. He is the President to have the most vetoes overriden by Congress. He was also the first President to be impeached, but was later acquitted by one vote, and finished the rest of his term. He is also the only US president never to have gone to school; he was taught to read by his wife Eliza McCardle Johnson. He bought Alaska from Russia for $2.7 million . 

<TITLE>Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn</TITLE>
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn was a Russian writer of novels, dramatist, and historian. With his works, the Gulag, a Soviet labor camp, became well known. Due to this, he won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1970, but also was exiled from the Soviet Union in 1974. In 1994, Solzhenitsyn went back to Russia. Later in his life, his health was bad, and he died on August 3, 2008. He received state funeral.

<TITLE>Aberdeen</TITLE>
Aberdeen is a city on the north east coast of Scotland where the rivers Dee and Don flow into the North Sea. It is the capital of the Grampian region of Scotland. Aberdeen is the third largest city in Scotland. The city's motto is Bon Accord.

Aberdeen is famous for its buildings made from granite. Because of the silver-grey colour of the stone, Aberdeen is called the "Silver City by the Golden Sands". Aberdeen has a university, the University of Aberdeen which was founded on 10 February 1495 by Bishop William Elphinstone.

The local people sometimes speak in a dialect called Doric. They are called Aberdonians.

Aberdeen has its own football team, Aberdeen F.C.. The team plays in the Scottish Premier League. 

Each year in August, Aberdeen hosts the Aberdeen International Youth Festival. This is one of the most important annual events in Scotland. Hundred of groups of young performing artists come to Aberdeen each year for the festival. 

<TITLE>Aquaculture</TITLE>
Aquaculture is the farming of fish, shrimp, and algae. Aquaculture supplies fish . Aquaculture was developed a long time ago in China and aquaculture supplies for over 20% of all the seafood harvested. However aquaculture is quite a new activity in Canada as it only began in the 1879. 

<TITLE>Alfred the Great</TITLE>
Alfred the Great was king of Wessex from 871 to 899. He was the first monarch from the British Isles to style himself as 'King of the Anglo-Saxons' and so he is sometimes considered the first English king. Alfred started the Royal Navy in the 9th century.

Alfred earned the name 'the Great' by defending the kingdom from Viking invasions. Alfred was a scholar and encouraged education in the kingdom as well as improving the legal system. 

He married Alswitha of Mercia, b. 852 - d. 905, known as Queen Ealswitha. She is buried at the Church of St. Lawrence in the Square, Winchester, England.

Alfred died in 899 but it is not known how he died. He was succeeded by his son, Edward the Elder.

<TITLE>Algiers</TITLE>
Algiers is the capital city of Algeria, which is a country in northern Africa. It is on the northern coast of the country. The population of the city is 1,519,570.

 Washington, D.C., United States 

<TITLE>Almoravid dynasty</TITLE>
The Almoravids were a Berber dynasty from the Sahara that ruled over a wide area of northwestern Africa and the Iberian peninsula during the 11th century.

Under this dynasty the Moorish empire included present-day Morocco, Western Sahara, Mauritania, Gibraltar, Tlemcen and a great part of what is now Senegal and Mali in the south, and Spain and Portugal to the north in Europe. At its greatest extent, the empire stretched 3,000 kilometres north to south .

<TITLE>Age of consent</TITLE>
If two people want to have sex, law says that they must have a certain age. This is called the age of consent. At that age, law says that the people are mature enough to decide for themselves if they want to have sex with each other.

The age of consent varies between states and countries, but it is usually around 12-18 years.

If a person is caught having sex with someone who is below the age of consent, he or she may be punished as a sex offender. They may have to serve a prison sentence.

<TITLE>Afonso I of Portugal</TITLE>
Alphonse I or Alphonzo I , in Portuguese Afonso I, was the first king of Portugal. He is best known by his prince name Afonso Henriques. 

Afonso Henriques was the son of Henry of Burgundy, Count of Portugal and Teresa of León. 

He became King on 25 July 1139, after winning the Battle of Ourique. He doubled the area of Portugal with the Reconquista and was nicknamed the Conqueror . He died on 6 December 1185 in Coimbra.

<TITLE>Amati</TITLE>
Amati is the name of a family of Italian violin makers. Between about 1549 to 1740 they made some of the most wonderful violins that were ever produced. They worked in Cremona in Italy, the town which is famous for violin making. 

The first famous member of the family was Andrea Amati who was born some time before 1511 and died in Cremona on 24 December 1577. He can be thought of as the inventor of the violin in its modern form. He made violins, violas and cellos. A small number of his instruments are still in existence. They are dated between 1564 and 1574 and they have the coat of arms of Charles IX of France on the back.

Andrea Amati’s two sons were Antonio Amati who was born about 1540 in Cremona and died there on 14 February 1607 and Girolamo Amati who was born about 1561 in Cremona and died of the plague there on 21 October 1630. They are known as "The Brothers Amati", but they did not work much together. However, they both produced some great instruments. They made the shape of the f holes perfect and gave their instruments more strength. They also made some large violas and cellos. They had an enormous influence on all other violin makers.

 Nicolò Amati was the son of Girolamo Amati. He is now the most famous member of the family. He was born on 3 December 1596 and died on 12 April 1684 He was the most eminent of the family. He had become a very skilled violin maker by 1630 when his father died. During the next few years there was a lot of suffering because of the plague and not many people could afford to buy instruments. Then, after 1640, there was more demand again and Nicolò made many great instruments. Those that have survived are among the most sought-after and expensive violins today. He made instruments that were slightly wider and were known as the “Grand Pattern”. Many other violin makers learned from him. These pupils include Andrea Guarneri and possibly also Antonio Stradivari.

 The last maker of the family was Nicolo's son, Girolamo Amati, known as Hieronymus II. He was born on 26 February and died on 21 February, 1740. Although he made some improvements to his father's instruments, they are not as good. Antonio Stradivari became the greatest violin maker at this time.

<TITLE>Amazons</TITLE>
The Amazons were a mythical ancient nation of all-women warriors. Herodotus placed them in a region around Scythia in Sarmatia. The histories and legends in Greek mythology may be inspired by warrior women among the Sarmatians.

<TITLE>Amazon River</TITLE>
The Amazon river is a river that flows in tropical forests of South America, mainly Brazil. It flows to the Atlantic Ocean. This river is the biggest by the amount of water it . It moves more water than the next eight rivers by amount put together. The Amazon, has the largest drainage basin in the world. It accounts for about one fifth of the world's total river flow. During the wet season parts of the Amazon exceed 120 m in width. Because of its size, it is sometimes called The River Sea. It is the world's largest river system, even though it is not the world's longest river system. The world's longest river is the Nile River. 

It is one of the longest rivers in the world. There are different studies, that tried to measure its length. It is therefore difficult to say which of these rivers are really the Amazon. Also note that during the rainy season, the length of the river changes. Several studies from Brazil, Spain and Chile say it is the longest river in the world, longer than the Nile. The Nile has a length of 6.571 km. The Amazon may have a length of 6.937,08 kilometres, about 140 km longer than the Nile. The Spanish daily newspaper El País gives its length at 6.850 kilometres. This would make it about 40 kilometres longer than the Nile. In 2007, scientists from Peru and Brazil calculated a length of 6.800 km.

A study done in 1969 says that the Amazon has a length of 6448 km. This was measured from a part of the River Apurimac. Until the 1970s, it was thought that the Marañón River was the source of the Amazon. In 2001, an expedition found that Nevado Mismi was in fact the source of the Amazon. Another document of the Geographic society of Lima gives the length of the Amazon at over 7.000 km.

The source of the Amazon is in the Andes Mountains of western South America. It flows east from there to the Atlantic Ocean. Most of the huge river and its many tributaries are in the country of Brazil. There are many places on the Amazon where a person on one side of the river cannot see the other side. The Brazilians call the Amazon the "River Sea." The Amazon is navigable from the ocean to Peru. Ocean ships can travel on the Amazon all the way across Brazil, and most of South America, to the city of Iquitos in Peru.

The estuary of the Amazon is about 330 k wide. The width of the mouth of the river is usually measured from Cabo do Norte to Punto Patijoca. Generally, the outlet of the Para River is included. It is 60 k wide, and forms the estuary of the Tocantins . The estuary also includes the island of Marajó, which lies in the mouth of the Amazon. This means that the Amazon is wider at its mouth than the entire length of the Thames in England.

Along the coastline, near Cabo do Norte, there are many islands partially covered with water. There are also sandbanks. The tides of the Atlantic generate a wave that reaches into the Amazon river. This wave goes along the coast for about 160 k. The phenomenon of this wave generated by the tides is called tidal bore. Locally it is known as pororoca. The pororoca occurs where the water is less than 7 m deep. It starts with a loud noise, and advances at a speed of  . The bore is the reason the Amazon does not have a delta. The ocean rapidly carries away the large amount of silt brought by the Amazon. This makes it impossible for a delta to grow past the shoreline. It also has a very large tide, that can reach 6 m. The place has become popular for river surfing.

A phenomenon that is very similar occurs at the mouth of the Orinoco.

No bridges have been built over the Amazon. This is not because the river would be too wide to bridge. For most of its length, engineers could build a bridge across the river easily. For most of its course, the river flows through tropical rainforest, there are very few roads and cities. Most of the time, the crossing can be done by a ferry, there is no need to build a bridge. 

The river and its tributaries for the most part, flow through the Rainforest. Most cities lie on the banks of the river. The river is the main route of traffic in the region. The biggest city on the river is Manaus, which is also the capital of the Brazillian State of Amazonas. Many native peoples live in the Amazon, such as the Urarina who live in Peru.

 Big ocean ships can get up the river until Manaus's, which is almost 1500 kilometers from its mouth. Smaller ocean ships of 3,000 tons and 7.9 m draft can reach as far as Iquitos in Peru, 3,700 km from the sea. Smaller riverboats can reach 780 km higher as far as Actual Point. Beyond that, small boats frequently go up to the Pogo Ode Escherichia's, just above Actual Point.

<TITLE>Abu Bakr</TITLE>
Abū Bakr was the first Muslim ruler after the Prophet Muhammad . While Sunnis regard him as his rightful successor , chosen by the people. The Shi'a Islam insist that he violated Muhammad's direct orders and made a Coup d'état. International lists have him as the first Muslim Caliph. 

<TITLE>Book of Amos</TITLE>
The Book of Amos is one of the books of the Nevi'im and of the Christian Old Testament. Amos is one of the minor prophets.

<TITLE>Anaxagoras</TITLE>
Anaxagoras was a Pre-Socratic Greek philosopher famous for introducing the cosmological concept of Nous , the ordering force.

<TITLE>Anaximenes of Miletus</TITLE>
Anaximenes of Miletus was a Greek Pre-Socratic philosopher from the latter half of the 6th century, probably a younger contemporary of Anaximander, whose pupil or friend he is said to have been. 

<TITLE>Apollo 13</TITLE>
Apollo 13 was the third manned lunar-lander mission. It was part of NASA's Project Apollo in the United States. Two days after launch, a faulty oxygen tank exploded, and the Service Module became damaged, causing a loss of oxygen and electrical power. Despite the hardships, the crew made it back to Earth. A movie called Apollo 13 was made in 1995 starring Tom Hanks.

<TITLE>Arthritis</TITLE>
Arthritis is a group of diseases that involves damaged body joints. 

 The most common of these diseases is Osteoarthritis. Osteoarthritis is caused by cartilage between the bones wearing down so that the bones rub against causing severe pain in the affected area. Other forms of arthritis include Rheumatoid arthritis , psoriatic arthritis, and septic arthritis .

<TITLE>Acetylene</TITLE>
Acetylene is a hydrocarbon, belonging to the alkyne group. It is the simplest type of alkyne, as it has only two hydrogen atoms and two carbon atoms. Acetylene is an unsaturated organic compound because its four atoms are triple bonded through a covalent bond. It was discovered in 1836 by Edmund Davy. The chemical symbol is C2H2.

80% of all acetylene produced yearly in the United States is used for chemical synthesis. It is a toxic chemical; breathing the substance causes dizziness, headache and nausea.

<TITLE>Alexander Selkirk</TITLE>
Alexander Selkirk, also known as Alexander Selcraig was a Scottish sailor. He was born in 1676, and died on the 13th December 1721. He became famous because he spent four years on an uninhabited island. His story probably inspired Daniel Defoe to write the book Robinson Crusoe. 

<TITLE>Acre</TITLE>
An acre is an English unit of area, which is also used in the United States and some Commonwealth countries. It is most often used to describe areas of land.

Originally, it was seen as the area of land a farmer could plough with an ox in a day. Since this definition depended on the farmer and the ox, it looked variable. Therefore, Edward I, Edward III, Henry VIII and George IV passed laws fixing its size. The Commonwealth countries, including the United states then also introduce these laws. 

<TITLE>Adenosine triphosphate</TITLE>
Adenosine triphosphate is the universal energy currency for all living things. Every cell in the world uses ATP for energy. It consists of a base and three phosphate groups. It can be made many different ways, but mainly it is made by cellular respiration.

ATP is formed in photosynthesising plants. ATP is made during a stage of photosynthesis. When an excited electron activates a gate that allows protons into the cell, the protons can not get out. As the concentration increases, the internal pressure increases as well. Soon, a small gate opens, allowing protons through. Upon their exit, the proton starts a reaction between an ADP molecule and a phosphate. The two are joined together and form ATP. In animals, ATP is made during Cellular respiration: it makes 2 ATP molecules in glycolysis, and 36 in the electron transport chain. Therefore, cellular respiration creates a total of 38 ATP in one cycle.

 The ATP molecule is very versatile, meaning that it can be used for many things. Energy is stored in its chemical bonds. 

When ADP binds with another phosphate, energy is stored that can be used later. In other words, when a bond is made, energy is stored. This is an endothermic reaction.

When ATP breaks a bond with a phosphate group and becomes ADP, energy is released. In other words, when a bond is broken energy is released. This is an exothermic reaction. The ATP phosphate exchange is a nearly never-ending cycle, stopping only when the cell dies. 

ATP gives energy to most of the cell's functions. For example the sodium-potassium pumps in the cell membrane require ATP to break into ADP and the loose phosphate must bind to the pump. All active transports require ATP in some form.

<TITLE>Arnold Schwarzenegger</TITLE>
Arnold Schwarzenegger is an actor and currently the governor of the American state of California. He lives in the Los Angeles, California area, but works in Sacramento, the capital of California.

Schwarzenegger went to the United States in 1968 and later became an actor. He has acted in many movies, including the The Terminator series. In 2003, when Gray Davis was recalled , Schwarzenegger won his seat for governor of California. 

Schwarzenegger is married to Maria Shriver. They have four children: two sons and two daughters. The youngest born in 1997, the oldest in 1989.

Before he was an actor, he was a bodybuilder and won the Mister Universe title seven times.

<TITLE>Adam Smith</TITLE>
Adam Smith was a Scottish economist, who is regarded as the Father of Modern Economics. His book, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations, published in 1776, was very important. People call the book just The Wealth of Nations. It stated some of the ideas on which modern economics is based. In the Wealth of Nations Adam Smith asks 'what can a person do that is best for his country?' He decides that if every person does what is best for himself and his little circle of family and friends, then the country will do better. This is because every person knows a lot about his own situation , much more than the government knows. This sort of thinking is called "liberal theory", a main part of liberalism.

He was also a philosopher who wanted to know why people thought that some things are good and others bad. He wrote an earlier book, in 1759, called The Theory of Moral Sentiments. He thought that sympathy was very important in ethics. Sympathy is when you see how someone else is feeling, imagine what it feels like, and then end up feeling the same way: for Smith, sympathy is like "putting yourself in someone else's shoes". For example, sympathy makes us feel happy to see someone else who is happy, or feel sorry for someone who is sad. Sympathy may even make us feel pain when we see someone in pain . Both Smith and his friend David Hume, who was another Scottish philosopher, wrote about the importance of sympathy in ethics. 

<TITLE>Antoine Lavoisier</TITLE>
Antoine Lavoisier was a French nobleman, chemist and biologist. He is often called the "father of modern chemistry". 

He was the first scientist to recognise and name the elements Hydrogen and Oxygen and was an important figure in the start of atomic theory. He was executed, along with hundreds of other nobles, during the French Revolution. 

<TITLE>Allegory</TITLE>
An allegory is a story which has a hidden meaning. The characters in allegorical stories are symbols which represent particular ideas. The story has a figurative meaning, not just a one. 

Allegory is an example of rhetoric, but an allegory does not have to be a story in language. It may be something to look at, such as a painting or sculpture.

An allegory is like a long metaphor. People have to use their imagination to understand what it is trying to say. A fable or parable is a short allegory with one basic idea . 

Sometimes people say that stories have meanings which the author, in fact, did not intend. For instance, many people have suggested that The Lord of the Rings was an allegory for the World Wars, but, in fact, it was written well before the outbreak of World War II, and J.R.R. Tolkien said that it was not an allegory. In this way people sometimes change the author’s ideas. Sometimes they do it for their own political reasons.

 Allegory has been a favourite form in the literature of nearly every nation. It is often used as a way of criticizing things or people where it would not be possible to do so directly.

In classical literature Plato and Ovid wrote allegories. Dante Alighieri wrote allegories in The Divine Comedy. In the Middle Ages Everyman was a morality play. John Bunyan’s The Pilgrim's Progress tells the story of a man trying to lead a Christian life. Jonathan Swift wrote Gulliver's Travels, which tells about the strange customs of faraway countries, but he was really criticizing things about his own country, the United Kingdom. Animal Farm by George Orwell is another example of an allegory, this time of the Soviet Union during Josef Stalin's era and the Russian Revolution. Some of the characters can be directly linked to figures during that time. 

Songs may also include allegories. "Waist Deep In The Big Muddy" tells a story of American soldiers in the 1800s, ordered by their commander to march into the Mississippi River, which they could never cross on foot. In truth, it told the story of soldiers fighting in the Vietnam War in the 1960s, and being expected to do the white guys bidding.

Allegories still continue to be popular today. Pictures, films and plays can be allegories. William Golding’s novel Lord of the Flies also has allegorical meaning. Star Trek used a great deal of allegory, to look at social conditions and moral values in the present, while telling stories based in the future. Alien races were often a reflection of Earth's own races and countries.

Allegorical artworks include Sandro Botticelli's La Primavera and Jan Vermeer's The Allegory of Painting.

<TITLE>Archimedes</TITLE>
Archimedes was a Greek scientist. He was an inventor, an astronomer, and a mathematician. He was born in the town of Syracuse in Sicily in what is now Italy. He was very famous during his life and he may be one of the most clever people who have ever lived. He is now said to be one of the most important scientists and the greatest mathematician of the ancient world. 

His father was Phidias, an astronomer, and he may have been in the family of a king of Syracuse. Syracuse was a rich Greek city, on the sea shore in Sicily. When Archimedes was about ten years old, he left Syracuse to study in Alexandria, in Egypt in the school of Euclid, who was a famous mathematician. Not much is known about the personal life of Archimedes, for example, whether he was married or if he had children.

 There are many stories told about Archimedes. Some of them may be true, but many of them may be untrue, or only partly true. 

The best known saying of Archimedes was that if he was given a long enough lever and a place to stand, he could move the world. This is meant to show the power of the lever. The lever is perhaps the simplest machine and can help a person to do more work than they would otherwise be able to do. Archimedes was not the first person to use a lever, but he did write about how it worked and what could be done to make it work better.

Another Archimedes story is that King Hiero II thought his crown was not pure gold. Archimedes proved that the crown was made from gold mixed with silver. The value of gold was more than that of silver, so the king was deceived. Archimedes was in a bath and thought about what happens when an item is put into water. He found out that different things with the same weight move out different amounts of water. This is called water displacement and the different metals have different density. When he had this idea, he jumped out of the bath and ran with no clothes on through the streets of the town, shouting "Eureka!" - which means "I have found it"

 Archimedes is also well known for being the first person to understand statics, which is a part of the study of physics and is to do with loads that do not move, for example in buildings or bridges. He also understood and wrote about what happens when things float in liquids which is called buoyancy. He discovered, that is found out, how many things work and wrote down the new rules and laws that he found. 

 Archimedes is also famous as an inventor because he made new tools and machines. For example, he made a machine to lift water that could be used by farmers to bring water to their crops. This is still called the Archimedes Screw. 

Archimedes probably also invented a machine to measure distance, an odometer. A cart was built with wheels that turned four hundred times in one mile. A pin on the wheel would hit a 400-tooth gear, so it turned once for every mile. This gear would then make a small stone fall into a cup. At the end of a journey one could count the number of stones in the cup to find the distance.

Archimedes also made a machine by which one person could pull a large ship with just one rope. This was the compound pulley. This is an important machine even today, as it helps people in everyday life, although the versions we now use are much more complicated. They still have the same integral structure, though.

 He also invented or made many machines used in war, for example he made better catapults. This was during the Punic Wars, which were between Rome in what is now Italy and the city of Carthage in what is now North Africa. For many years he helped stop the Roman army from attacking Syracuse, his city. One war machine was called the "claw of Archimedes", or the "iron hand". It was used to defend the city from attacks by ships. Ancient writers said that it was a kind of crane with a hook that lifted ships out of the water and caused their destruction. 

Another story about Archimedes is that he burned Roman ships from far away using many mirrors and the light from the sun. This is perhaps possible, but it is perhaps more likely that this was done with flaming missiles from a catapult.

After many years the Roman army took the city of Syracuse. One of the soldiers killed Archimedes, who was then an old man. The soldiers had perhaps been told to catch Archimedes alive, so it may have been a mistake. The story is that Archimedes was killed while drawing a mathematical diagram in the sand. He was so busy with his drawing that he did not see the soldier behind him. His famous last words were, “Don’t disturb my circles!”

<TITLE>Alternative medicine</TITLE>
Alternative medicine describes practices used in place of conventional medical treatments. 

It can also describe practices used along with conventional medicine.

Alternative medicine includes practices that incorporate spiritual, metaphysical, or religious belief; non-evidence based practices, non-European medical traditions, or newly developed approaches to healing.hreo

<TITLE>Approval voting</TITLE>
Approval voting is a voting system used for elections. In approval voting, each person can vote for any number of candidates he likes. The votes for each of the candidates are counted, and summed up. The candidate or candidates with most votes are chosen as the winners of the election.

Proponents argue it is better than Plurality Voting because voters can not only vote for the lessor of evils advertised by the media, but also vote for their favorite candidates. If their goal is just to vote against a candidate, they can do so more forcefully by approving all other candidates. Ballots can easily be hand counted, in case voters do not trust computers, which would be needed for Instant Runoff Voting. Vote spoiling is not an issue with Approval Voting, so many candidates may run for office.

Opponents argue that voters still have some of the problems of plurality voting, which is that they don't know if they will need to compromise vote or not. Giving approval to a compromise candidate could result in that compromise candidate winning, when their favorite would have won had they not given approval to the compromise candidate. It is possible for 51% of voters to view a candidate as their first choice, yet that candidate loses to a compromise candidate because many of those voters approved the compromise candidate as well. Not knowing whether or not to compromise is a problem with all voting systems when at least 3 strong candidates run.

<TITLE>Astoria, Oregon</TITLE>
Astoria is a city in the American state of Oregon . It is named after John Jacob Astor, who started a fur trading post, there in 1811. Many movies have been filmed there like The Goonies, Kindergarten Cop, and Free Willy.

<TITLE>ASCII art</TITLE>
ASCII art is art made out of ASCII characters. This can be simple art like "<3" , or it can be more complex, with characters carefully placed out, containing many lines of characters. ASCII art was originally used to "draw" pictures on computers that only allowed ASCII characters. Smilies are considered ASCII art. 

<TITLE>American English</TITLE>
American English or U.S. English is the dialect of English language spoken in the United States. It is different in some ways from other variations of English, such as British English. Historically, many types of American English can be found in old local dialects of England.

Many people today know about American English even if they live in a country where another form of English is spoken. This is partly because people hear and read American English via the media, for example CNN television, and the Internet, where the most common form of English is American English.

Because people all over the world hear and read American English as well as other versions of English we may find that the English language starts to take on new words. English has been changing for centuries, adding new words to its vocabulary. For example, the English language spoken in India, which has more than one billion people, will add more American English words to go along with its British English base and many other words adopted into English usage in India from from any of the 200+ Indian languages.

Sometimes people will learn American English as it is spoken in America - for example, in telephone call centers in India and other places, people often learn American English in order to sound more like their customers who call India from America. These people often continue to use American English in everyday life.

Many word definitions are different in American English. Most changes in a language start with small things like this - for instance Italian, Spanish, French all came from Latin due to many small changes in use over centuries.

 There are many words that sound the same between the American English and British English, but are spelled differently. For example:

There are also some words in American English that are a bit different from British English, e.g.:

There are examples of ambiguity such as the word "ass" stemming from a mis-pronunciation of the British-English crudity "arse" which makes certain biblical passages risible.

<TITLE>Albert Spalding</TITLE>
Albert Goodwill Spalding was a professional baseball player, manager and co-founder of A.G. Spalding sporting goods company.

<TITLE>Australian English</TITLE>
Australian English is the kind of English language used in Australia.

 People from Britain and Ireland first came to live in Australia in 1788. They brought many different kinds of English with them. These different kinds of English began to mix and change. The new comers soon began to speak with their own distinctive accent and vocabulary. 

More and more people came to Australia in the 19th and 20th centuries. Many people came looking for gold. Some came from Britain and Ireland. Others came from non-English speaking countries. Australian English continued to grow and change.

Australian English has also been influenced by American English. During the Second World War there were many American soldiers staying in Australia. American television shows and music have been popular in Australia since the 1950s.

 The Australian and New Zealand accents are very similar. The Australian accent is also similar to accents from the South-East of Britain.

In Australian English the /r/ sound can only occur before a vowel. Many words which sound different in other accents sound the same in Australian English. Some examples are:

Some Australian English vowels sound different to vowels of other kinds of English. For example, the vowel in day starts with a very open mouth. This makes the Australian day sound close to the die of most British or American people.

Australian English has some vowels not used in some other kinds of English. For example, the words bad and lad do not rhyme because bad has a long vowel and lad has a short one. Also, cot does not sound like caught and bother does not rhyme with father.

As with American English the /t/ sound can sometimes sound like a /d/ sound. This usually happens between vowels. So, for example, 

Also in the Australian accent a /t/ sound plus the sound of you comes out sounding like chew and a /d/ sound plus the sound of you comes out sounding like Jew. Here are some examples of things which sound the same.

Australians pronounce wh and w the same. Some examples are:

 Australians use many words that other English speakers do not use. The famous Australian greeting, for example, is G'day!. A native forest is called the bush and central Australia is called the outback.

Many words were brought to Australia from Britain and Ireland. For example, mate meaning "friend" which is still used in Britain. Some of these words have changed in meaning. 

A few words have come from Australian Aboriginal languages. These are mainly names for animals, plants and places. Some examples are dingo and kangaroo.

Sometimes we do not know where a word came from. For example, dinkum or fair dinkum means "true", "is that true?", "this is the truth". But nobody know where the word is from: some say the word comes from Chinese, others say the word comes from England.

 Australian spelling is generally very similar to British spelling. In words like organise, realise, both -ise and -ize are accepted, as in British English, but, -ise is preferred. In words like colour, favourite, -our is usual, but sometimes it is spelled with -or. Program and jail, on the other hand, are more common than programme and gaol.

 Most linguists split Australian English up into three main kinds. These are Broad, General, and Cultivated Australian English. 

Broad Australian English sounds very strongly Australian, when compared to other kinds of English. Dame Edna Everage speaks Broad Australian English.

General Australian English is the middle ground. It is used by most Australians, and can be heard in Australian-made films and television programs. Russell Crowe and Nicole Kidman speak General Australian English. 

Cultivated Australian English is close to British English. Judy Davis and Geoffrey Rush speak Cultivated Australian English.

The Australian accent does not change much across the country. However, some small differences include how the letter 'a' sounds like in the words castle, dance, chance, advance, etc. Some use the vowel in calm others use the vowel in mat or mad. Another regional difference is the pronunciation of 'e' sounds especially followed by 'l', such as Melbourne, helped, cellist, with Victorians pronouncing this 'e' like the 'a' sound in alchemy or chalice. 

However, there are differences in the words Australians use in different parts of the country. For example, footy means "football" in NSW and Queensland, but "Australian rules football" in Victoria. In NSW, a swimming costume is called a cossie or swimmers, in Queensland it is called togs, but it's called bathers in most other states.

<TITLE>American Airlines Flight 77</TITLE>
American Airlines Flight 77 was an airplane that was hijacked by terrorists and was crashed into The Pentagon. The crash was a part of the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States of America. 58 people and 6 crew members died in the crash. The plane was a Boeing 757, and the time of the crash was 9:37 am Eastern Daylight Time.

Some think that a Boeing 757 did not crash into The Pentagon, because the hole in the building from the crash was only 75 feet wide, while the wingspan of a Boeing 757 is 124 feet.

<TITLE>Ambush</TITLE>
An ambush is a tactic which involves a small group of soldiers hiding and suddenly attacking another group of soldiers.

<TITLE>Adaptive radiation</TITLE>
Adaptive radiation is rapid evolutionary radiation. It is an increase in the number and diversity of species within each lineage. Some definitions phrase it in terms of a single clade: "Adaptive radiation is the rapid proliferation of new taxa from a single ancestral group". However, in the most striking cases, such as occurred in the Triassic after the greatest extinction event in Earth history, many lines underwent rapid radiation simultaneously. This must have something to do with the availability of ecological niches and relative absence of competition. The Ediacaran biota were the result of an early metazoan radiation. The greatest radiation of all took place early in the Cambrian period, when most of our animal phyla evolved: see List of animal phyla. 

In the relative absence of competition, groups diversify to fill available habitats and niches. This is an evolutionary process driven by natural selection. 

The term was introduced and discussed by George Gaylord Simpson, the palaeontologist who contributed to the modern evolutionary synthesis. Others prefer not to use the term. Robert L Carroll prefers to use the term major evolutionary transitions, though it turns out that all or most of these could also be described as adaptive radiations. Others use terms like macroevolution, or even megaevolution, as if the processes are different from those which occur below species level. It is part of evolutionary theory that all processes take place at the level of populations. All agree, though, that the speed of evolution does change, however it is measured.

 Records of timing are bedevilled by gaps in the fossil record, often at those crucial early stages when numbers are low and geographical distribution is severely restricted. "In reality, there are long periods within nearly every lineage for which the fossil record remains unknown".p297 These gaps affect our knowledge of timing, and of morphological change.

Nevertheless, when a string of distinctly new lineages appear within a short interval, it seems reasonable to conclude that the rate of change has been surprisingly fast. An example would be the appearance of new reptilian groups in the Triassic. Using the term 'reptile' broadly, the groups include dinosaurs , pterosaurs , ichthyosaurs , Turtles , Crurotarsi , Phytosaurs . These radiations occur after the great mass extinction at the end of the Palaeozoic era, and the Triassic itself had several lesser extinctions. Unfortunately, the Triassic has the poorest fossil record of the whole of the Mesozoic era.

 The evolution of a novel feature may permit a group to diversify by making new ways of living possible. A most striking example is the cleidoic egg, developed in early amniotes, which permitted vertebrates to invade the land. The cleidoic egg must have been developed in the latest Devonian or early Carboniferous. Amphibians, who branched off before this event, still lay their eggs in water, and so are limited in the extent to which they can exploit land environments. 

An example of a more modest innovation is the evolution of a fourth cusp in the mammalian tooth. This trait permits a vast increase in the range of foodstuffs which can be fed on. Evolution of this character has thus increased the number of ecological niches available to mammals. The trait arose a number of times in different groups during the Cenozoic, and in each instance was immediately followed by an adaptive radiation. Birds find other ways to provide for each other, ie. the evolution of flight opened new possibilities, and an adaptive radiation occurred.

 Adaptive radiations often occur as a result of an organism entering an environment with unoccupied niches, such as a newly formed lake or isolated island chain. The colonizing population may diversify rapidly to take advantage of all possible niches.

In Lake Victoria, an isolated lake which formed recently in the African rift valley, over 300 species of cichlid fish adaptively radiated from one parent species in just 15,000 years. 

 In about 6500 s, the Hawaiian Islands have the most diverse collection of drosophilid flies in the world, living from rainforests to mountain meadows. About 800 Hawaiian drosophilid species are known.

Studies show a clear "flow" of species from older to newer islands. There are also cases of colonization back to older islands, and skipping of islands, but these are much less frequent. By potassium/argon radioactive dating, the present islands date from 0.4 million years ago to 10mya . The oldest member of the Hawaiian archipelago still above the sea is Kure Atoll, which can be dated to 30 mya. The archipelago itself, produced by the Pacific plate moving over a hot spot, has existed for far longer, at least into the Cretaceous. Previous islands now beneath the sea form the Hawaiian-Emperor seamount chain.

All of the native drosophilid species in Hawai i have apparently descended from a single ancestral species that colonized the islands, about 20 million years ago. The subsequent adaptive radiation was spurred by a lack of competition and a wide variety of vacant niches. Although it would be possible for a single pregnant female to colonise an island, it is more likely to have been a group from the same species.

There are other animals and plants on the Hawaiian archipelago which have undergone similar, if less spectacular, adaptive radiations.

 Adaptive radiations commonly follow mass extinctions: following an extinction, many niches are left vacant. A classic example of this is the replacement of the non-avian dinosaurs at the end of the Cretaceous with mammals in the Palaeocene.

<TITLE>Allele</TITLE>
An allele is a form of a gene at a particular position on a chromosome.

Typical plants and animals have two sets of chromosomes: one set inherited from each parent, and are described as diploid. So they have two alleles at each gene locus. If the two alleles at the same gene locus are identical, the individual is called a homozygote and is said to be homozygous: if instead the two alleles are different, the individual is a heterozygote and is heterozygous. 

In the simplest case, the effect of one allele completely ‘masks’ the other in heterozygous combination: that is, the phenotype produced by the two alleles in heterozygous combination is identical with that produced by one of the two homozygous genotypes. The allele that masks the other is said to be dominant to the latter, and the alternative allele is said to be recessive to the former. This phenomenon is called dominance, an idea which originates in the work of Gregor Mendel, the founder of genetics.

The inheritance of alleles, and their dominance, can be represented in a Punnett square.

 An example is the gene for blossom colour in many species of flower. A single gene controls the colour of the petals, but there may be several different versions of the gene.

In this example, parents have the genotype Bb . If B is found in their genotype, the flower will be red. Therefore, the only time a flower is not red is when the genotype is bb .

The probability of the flowers having different genotypes are: BB is 25%, Bb is 50%, and bb is 25%. The phenotype of the flower will always be red if a dominant B is in the genotype. Therefore, there is a 25% chance of getting a flower which is not red, and 75% chance of getting a flower which is red.

<TITLE>Antigen</TITLE>
When an antigen is introduced into the body it causes the production of antibodies. Antigens can include bacteria, cells of transplanted organs, and toxins. Strictly speaking, an antigen is any substance that can stimulate the production of antibodies and combine specifically with them. For example, antigen A stimulates production anti-B antibodies, and antigen B stimulates production of anti-A antibodies. It is important to note that antigens stimulate production of antibodies and do not directly produce produce them. Antibodies are what determine whether or not a blood transfusion recipient will have an adverse reaction to the donor's blood. A person with blood type B for example, will have anti-A antibodies and as a result, could only safely accept blood from a donor with blood type B or blood type O . 

<TITLE>Al-Qaeda</TITLE>
al-Qaeda is a worldwide militant Islamic terrorist organization. People think it is led by Osama bin Laden. The organisation wants to make new governments using its ideas about Islam. Members of al Qaeda believe their ideas of radical Islamicism do not go together with democracy. They want to fight Western and liberal governments, most of all the United States. 

Members of the organisation have performed many acts of terrorism. These acts were usually directed against the United States, and other liberal countries. The most well-known attacks include the September 11, 2001 attacks, the bombings of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, and the attack on the US Navy ship USS Cole in 2000. 

<TITLE>Alessandro Volta</TITLE>
Count Alessandro Giuseppe Antonio Anastasio Volta was a Lombard physicist known especially for the development of the first electrical cell in 1800. He was born in Como in Lombardy, Italy.

Volta worked on the electrophorus that makes a static electric charge in 1775. Volta also studied what we now call capacitance, developing separate means to study both electrical potential V and charge Q, and discovering that for a given object they are proportional. This may be called Volta's Law of Capacitance, and likely for this work the unit of electrical potential has been named the volt. Around 1791 he began to study "animal electricity". In this way he discovered Volta's Law of the electrochemical series, and the law that the electromotive force of a galvanic cell. In 1800, He invented the voltaic pile, an early electric battery, which made a steady electric current. It is credited as the first electrochemical cell.  In honor of his work in the field of electricity, Napoleon made him a count in 1810. A museum in Como, the Voltian Temple, has been built in his honor and exhibits some of the original equipment he used to conduct experiments. In 1881, an important electrical unit, the volt, was named in his honor. There have also been innovations and discoveries named after Alessandro Volta including the Toyota Alessandro Volta, and the Volta Crater on the Moon.

Volta married the daughter of Count Ludovico Peregrini, Teresa, with whom he raised three sons. In 1779 he became professor of experimental physics at the University of Pavia, a chair he occupied for almost 25 years. Volta is buried in the city of Como. At the Tempio Voltiano near Lake Como there is a museum devoted to explaining his work.

<TITLE>Antlia</TITLE>
Antlia is a constellation, or group of stars in the sky that form a picture. It looks like an air or vacuum pump. Its stars are so faint that before astronomers had powerful electronic telescopes, nobody had given it a name. People who live in the northern parts of the world can see it in latitudes to 66 degrees north and people who live in the southern parts of the world can see it 50 degrees south from January through March.

<TITLE>Arkansas</TITLE>
Arkansas, sometimes called the Land of Opportunity or The Natural State, is one of the United States. Its capital and largest city is Little Rock. It has been estimated that around 3 million people live in Arkansas today.

 Arkansas became the 25th state to enter the Union in 1836. During the American Civil War, Arkansas was one of the Confederate states, however, it was the second state to be put back in to the U.S. in the Reconstruction.

 Arkansas is notable for its bauxite mines. Arkansas was also the first U.S. state where diamonds were found. Notable Arkansans include Bill Clinton, who was governor of Arkansas before he became the President of the United States, and Sam Walton, the founder of Wal-Mart.

<TITLE>Alexander Fleming</TITLE>
Sir Alexander Fleming was a Scottish biologist and pharmacologist. His father Hugh, died at 59 when Alexander was only seven. He is best known for discovering the antibiotic substance penicillin in 1928. He shared a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1945 for this discovery with Howard Walter Florey and Ernst Boris Chain. His accidental finding of penicillin in the year 1928 marked the start of today's antibiotics.

<TITLE>Andrew Carnegie</TITLE>
Andrew Carnegie was a Scottish businessman. He ran U.S. Steel, a major steel making corporation.

<TITLE>Astronomer Royal</TITLE>
Astronomer Royal is a senior post in the Royal Household of the Sovereign of the United Kingdom. There are two officers, the senior being the Astronomer Royal dating from June 22, 1675, and the second the Astronomer Royal for Scotland, which dates from 1834.

King Charles II, who founded the Royal Observatory Greenwich in 1675 instructed the first Astronomer Royal John Flamsteed, "to apply himself with the most exact care and diligence to the rectifying of the tables of the motions of the heavens, and the places of the fixed stars, so as to find out the so much desired longitude of places for the perfecting of the art of navigation."

From that time until 1972 the Astronomer Royal was Director of the Royal Observatory Greenwich. As Astronomer Royal he receives a stipend of £100 a year and is a member of the Royal Household, under the general authority of the Lord Chamberlain. After the separation of the two offices the position of Astronomer Royal has been largely honorary, though he remains available to advise the Sovereign on astronomical and related scientific matters, and the office is of great prestige.

<TITLE>Airline</TITLE>
An airline is a company that transports people and items using airplanes. An airline may have as few as one airplane or a fleet of hundreds of airplanes.

Most airlines offer regular flights between a group of airports.

<TITLE>Australian Capital Territory</TITLE>
The Australian Capital Territory or ACT is a small territory in Australia. It was created as the home for the Australian capital city, Canberra, because of fighting between New South Wales and Victoria over where the capital city should be. The Jervis Bay Territory was created at the same time so that the ACT would have a harbour without relying on one of the states.

<TITLE>Adobe Systems</TITLE>
Adobe is an American software company. Usually all of the programs they make are for creative uses, such as Adobe Flash, Adobe Dreamweaver and Adobe Photoshop. All Adobe products on their website are allowed to be downloaded, but for a limited time only.

<TITLE>Apparent magnitude</TITLE>
The apparent magnitude of a celestial body is a measure of its brightness as seen by a person on Earth, normalized to the value it would have in the absence of the atmosphere. The brighter the object appears, the lower the numerical value of its magnitude.

<TITLE>Absolute magnitude</TITLE>
In astronomy, absolute magnitude is the apparent magnitude, m, an object would have if it were at a standard luminosity distance away from us, in the absence of interstellar extinction. It allows the overall brightnesses of objects to be compared without regard to distance.

<TITLE>Apollo 14</TITLE>
Apollo 14 was the eighth manned mission in the Apollo program. It was the third mission to land on the Moon. The nine-day mission left the Earth on January 31, 1971, and landed on the Moon on February 5. The Lunar Module landed in the Fra Mauro formation; this had been the target of the ill-fated Apollo 13 mission. During the two walks on the Moon's surface, 93.2 l of moon rock was collected. Several experiments, including seismic studies, were carried out. Commander Alan Shepard famously hit two golf balls on the lunar surface with a make-shift club he had brought from Earth. Command Module Pilot Stuart Roosa took several hundred seeds on the mission, many of which were planted on return, resulting in the so called Moon trees. The pilot of the Lunar Module was Edgar Mitchell, PhD. In June 2009, the NASA Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter was able to photograph the Apollo 14 landing site. The base of the lunar module and the astronauts footprints on the Moon's suface could be clearly seen.

<TITLE>Apollo 17</TITLE>
Apollo 17 is the last manned spacecraft on the Moon. Eugene Cernan was the last person on the Moon. His Lunar Module Pilot was Jack Schmitt, PhD

<TITLE>Alpha Centauri</TITLE>
Alpha Centauri is the brightest star system in the southern Centaurus constellation. It is the fourth brightest star in the night sky, with a magnitude of -0.01. It is visible in the Southern Hemisphere, and is too far south for most of the Northern Hemisphere to see.

It is the closest star system to our own, being 4.2-4.4 light years away. 

To the naked eye, the two brightest parts of the system are too close for the eye to be able to see them as separate stars.

Its proper name is Rigil Kentaurus , which comes from the Arabic phrase Al Rijl al Kentaurus, meaning "foot of the centaur", but is usually referred to by its Bayer name Alpha Centauri. Another name is Toliman. It is also sometimes known as Bungula, possibly from the Latin word ungula meaning "hoof". It and Beta Centauri are the "Pointers" to the Southern Cross.

Alpha Centauri A is also known as HD 128620, HR 5459, CP-60°5483, GCTP 3309.00A, and LHS 50. Alpha Centauri B is also known as HD 128621, HR 5460, GCTP 3309.00B, and LHS 51.

Alpha Centauri is a triple star system. It consists of two main stars, Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B at a distance of 4.36 ly, and a dimmer red dwarf named Proxima Centauri at a distance of 4.22 ly. Both of the two main stars are rather similar to the Sun. The larger star, Alpha Centauri A, is the most similar to the Sun, but a little larger and brighter.

<TITLE>Abel Tasman</TITLE>
Abel Janszoon Tasman was a Dutch sea explorer. He discovered Tasmania and New Zealand while on voyages in 1642 and 1644, in the service of the VOC . He also discovered large parts of Australia. 

He was born in Groningen, Holland. He went to Batavia to work for the VOC in 1633. He went back to Holland in 1636. He went back to Batavia with his wife, Jannetie Tjaerss, 2 years later. He went north to Japan in 1640. In 1642 Tasman went south to Palembang..

 Tasman set sail from Batavia with the ships Heemskerck and Zeehaen on August 14, 1642. He was told to search for New Holland. He was hoping to find gold, silver and other riches. On November 24, 1642 he discovered the west coast of Tasmania which he called Van Diemen's Land. He named it after Anthony Van Diemen, Governor General of the Dutch East Indies. Tasman sailed around to the east coast of Van Diemen's Land and claimed the land for the Dutch on December 3, 1642. The ships then sailed west and discovered New Zealand. His ships were attacked by Maori in large war canoes and 4 sailors died. Tasman then sailed north-east to Tonga and Fiji. He then sailed north west to New Guinea and got back to Batavia in June 1643.

 In 1644 Tasman sailed from Batavia with the ships Limmen, Zeemeeuw and Bracq. He sailed along the west coast of New Guinea, and then the coast of Australia from Cape York to North West Cape. He went back to Batavia in August 1644. He showed that Western Australia and Queensland were part of the same country. He was not able to get through Torres Strait, but his maps were used for the next 200 years.

Tasman made more trips including to Sumatra in 1646, Siam in 1647, and Manila in 1648. He purchased a lot of land in Batavia where he died in October 1659.

Several places have been named after him, including Tasmania, the Tasman Peninsula, Tasman Island and the Tasman Sea.

<TITLE>Austin, Texas</TITLE>
Austin is the capital city of the U.S. state of Texas. The University of Texas at Austin is located there.

Austin was first called Waterloo in 1835. In 1839 it was chosen to be the capital city of The Republic of Texas and named for Stephen F. Austin. The University of Texas at Austin was founded in 1883.

 The mayor of Austin is Lee Leffingwell.

Austin also has a city council with seven members.

Many businesses have their main offices in or near Austin, including AMD, Dell, Freescale Semiconductors and Whole Foods.

 Formula One has made an agreement with the city of Austin to host the Formula 1 United States Grand Prix. The first race will be in 2010. A new racetrack will be built to host the race. The last United States Grand Prix was in 2007 at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.

Herrman Tilke will design the Austin F1 track. He has been asked to design a track like the classic racetracks of Silverstone, Hockenheim and Spa. The track will be over 3-miles in length.

<TITLE>Auschwitz concentration camp</TITLE>
Auschwitz concentration camp was the largest concentration camp of Nazi Germany. Its name comes from the name of the town where it stood, Oświęcim. Auschwitz is the name of Oświęcim in the German language.

People also call these death camps by other names including Auschwitz, Konzentrationslager Auschwitz-Birkenau, KL Auschwitz, and the Former Nazi German Concentration Camp of Auschwitz. Beginning in 1940, Nazi Germany built many concentration camps there. In these death camps, Nazi Germany killed about 3.0-3.5 million people. 90% of them were Jewish people.

Schutzstaffel under the direct control of Heinrich Himmler operated these death camps. SS also operated many such camps in Nazi Germany. Until the summer of 1943, the commander of Auschwitz was Rudolf Hoess. After him, Arthur Liebehenschel and Richard Baer became commander of the camp. After the Second World War, Hoess wrote his autobiography had given many details about these camps. After the Second World War, he received the death penalty, and the authorities hanged him in front of the crematorium of Auschwitz I. Johanna Langefeld, Maria Mandel, and Elisabeth Volkenrath managed the women prisoners of Auschwitz. 

About 700 prisoners tried to escape from different Auschwitz camps. Only 300 succeeded. Guards caught the families of the prisoners who escaped or tried to escape. They kept them as prisoners. They showed the family members to other prisoners to prevent any escape attempts.

Auschwitz was a big complex of many concentration camps. There were three main camps:

There were many other sub-camps around these three main camps.

 Auschwitz I served as the office for all camps at the place. The Nazi Germany had established this on 20th May 1940. Beginning on 14th June 1940, the Nazi Germany started keeping prisoners there. The first batches were of 728 prisoners from Poland and then 48 homosexual persons from Germany. Then Jews arrived as prisoners. At any time, there were between 13,000 and 16,000 prisoners. In 1942, the number increased to 20,000. However, contrary to as shown in many films, most of the Jew prisoners were in Auschwitz II. Still no one knows exactly how many people were sent to camps. 

The SS selected some prisoners, generally of German nationality, to work as guards. They called these guards “kapos”. The prisoners’ clothes carried different marks to distinguish different types of prisoners. Generally, the Jews got the worst treatment. 

On Sundays, the prisoners did not have to do work. On this day, they did cleaning and washing. The living conditions were very bad and food supplies were worse. Many prisoners died regularly due to the bad conditions. 

The SS built many types of rooms to give different types of punishments to prisoners. They constructed rooms of 1.5 metres square. They kept four people in such a room standing all night, and forced them to work during the day. In some other rooms, the SS officers kept people and did not give them any water or food. These people were left to die of hunger. In some rooms, there would be only a small window. They kept people there and they died as the room’s air became without oxygen. They also hanged people in a way that their shoulder joints got broken. They remained hanging for hours and days, suffered much pain and finally died. The camp also had a place to kill people by firing gunshots at them. They also hanged some persons and they died a slow and painful death. 

On 3rd September 1941, the SS did the first testing of poison gas on prisoners at this camp. They used Hydrogen cyanide or Zyklon B. In this test, they killed 600 Prisoners of Wars of the Soviet Union and about 250 Poles. When the SS found that the test was a success, they constructed a gas chamber and a crematorium in block 11 of the camp. They used this from 1941 to 1942, and killed about 60,000 people by sending them to the gas chamber. After this, they made this as an air-raid shelter for the use of SS. The gas chamber still exists after reconstruction using the original parts. Now, it is a part of the museum. 

On 26th March 1942, the first women prisoner arrived at Auschwitz. A gynecologist Dr. C. Allan did many types of experiments on Jewish women during the period from April 1943 to May 1944. She was trying to develop a simple injection to make these women sterilized. Another doctor named Joseph Mengele did experiments on twins and dwarfs. He did things like castration without using any anesthetics. All these experiments were very crude and painful. Many women and men died during these experiments. The doctors killed many patients of the camp’s hospital by giving them injection of phenol if the patients did not recover quickly.

At the order of Heinrich Himmler’s order, SS even established a brothel in Auschwitz in summer of 1943. The women working in the brothel were non-Jewish prisoners. The brothel was established to reward prisoners of high value to the Nazis .

Auschwitz II was another part of the complex. Many people know this simply by the name of "Auschwitz". Here Nazi Germany killed over one million people, mostly Jews, poles and gypsies. 

The Nazis began concentrating Birkenau in October 1941. Holocaust Survivors' Network had posted a photograph of this place. Auschwitz II had four gas chambers. These gas chambers looked like showers. Auschwitz II also had four crematoria. In the gas chambers, people were killed by using gas and in the crematorium, they burnt the bodies of the dead persons. 

Everyday Nazi authorities brought many prisoners by rail to Auschwitz. The Nazis separated these prisoners into three groups. Within hours they sent about 66% of prisoners to gas chambers where they died. This 66% generally included all children, all women, all elderly persons, and others whom SS officers thought not fully fit to do work. Everyday SS killed in gas chambers about 20,000 persons. They used a cyanide gas to kill these persons. The SS selected some fit persons for working as slave labor at companies like I. G. Farben and Krupp. Records indicate that between 1940 and 1945, about 405,000 persons worked as slave labors. Out of them, about 340,000 died during this period. Oskar Schindler, a German industrialist saved about 1,000 Jews from Poland. He sent them away at his factory, and these Jews lived. SS officials made a third group mostly of twins and dwarfs. Nazi doctors like Josef Mengele did experiments on these persons. 

The SS used some prisoners for different works in the camp like kapos and sonderkommandos . The kapos maintained discipline. Sonderkommandos took the dead bodies from the gas chambers to the crematorium for burning the bodies. Before burning, they even took out gold from the filling in dead persons’ teeth, if any. From time to time, SS also killed some of the kapos and sonderkommandos. Altogether about 6,000 SS members worked at Auschwitz.

By 1943 many resistance groups had come up inside the camps of Auschwitz. These groups helped some prisoners to escape from Auschwitz. These persons brought the information to the world about the killings taking place inside the Auschwitz. If one prisoner escaped, the SS killed many other prisoners, and sometimes arrested the family members of the escaped prisoners and paraded them in the camps. This was to stop other prisoners from attempting any escape. 

On 27th January 1945, the Red Army of the Soviet Union reached the camp complex. All the SS guards and officers had fled. They had forced march more than 58,000 prisoners on a death march to Germany. The Red Army found about 7,600 persons in the camp. 

In 1947 Poland founded a museum at the site of the Auschwitz camps. By 1994, about 22 million visitors came to the museum. 

In Auschwitz III and many other sub-camps, the SS kept the prisoners who worked as slave workers for factories of I. G. Farben. Doctors from Auschwitz II came to visit these camps from time to time. If they found unfit and weak persons, these persons had to go to Auschwitz II. There the SS guards killed them in the gas chambers.

The Allies received some information about Auschwitz camps during 1941-1944. However, the authorities did not believe the figures of killings. Two persons, namely Rudolf Vrba and Alfred Wetzler escaped from these camps. They presented their reports, and Allied leaders learnt the truth about Auschwitz in the middle of 1944.

During 1944, airplanes of the Allies had taken some photographs of the area, which included Auschwitz camps. However, no one analyzed these photographs. Only in 1970s, the authorities looked at these photographs carefully. At one time, the allied had planned bombing the camps. But, they dropped the idea as this might have endangered the lives of the prisoners. In fact some planes dropped bombs at nearby military targets. One bomb fell on the camp and killed some prisoners. The debate still continues about the steps, which could have been taken to save the killings of the prisoners by the SS.

By late-1944, the Red Army had come closer to the place. The SS personnel managing the camps blew up the gas chambers of Birkenau to hide their crimes of killing. On 17th January 1945, Nazi personnel started to vacate the camps. They forced the prisoners held there to march towards west. They left behind only those who could not march. On 27th January 1945, the troops of the 322nd Infantry of the Red Army reached the place. They found and freed about 7,500 prisoners.

 Little is known about the number of people who died at Auschwitz and other camps. It is thought to be a large number. The Nazis destroyed most of the records. Studies to arrive at the figures depend on the witnesses and persons of Nuremberg Trials. In some case, survivors’ accounts helped to fix some rough figures. 

The communist governments of the Soviet Union and the Poland had reported the number at 4 million. Witnesses and the persons facing trials at Nuremberg Trials gave lower figures. Nazi Rudolf Hoess said that between 2.5 and 3 million had been killed, while Adolf Eichmann gave a figure of 2 million. In 1983, French scholar George Wellers was one of the first to use Nazi data on deportations to estimate the number killed at Auschwitz. He calculated a figure of 1.613 million dead, including 1.42 million Jews and 146,000 Poles. Around the same time, Franciszek Piper used timetables of train arrivals and other records of sending out of people by the Nazis. He calculated 1.1 million Jewish deaths and 140,000-150,000 Polish victims, along with 23,000 Roma . Many scholars think this figure might be the right order of magnitude.

After few years of the Second World War, the government of Poland decided to restore Auschwitz I. They repaired some of the camps. Sometimes they did very minor changes from the original set up – but this they indicated by placing suitable notices. Auschwitz II and the remains of the gas chambers are also part of the museum. The museum had many sections. One section has very large number of shoes of men, women and children. Another section has suitcases, which the victims had brought. In fact, victims brought many things including household utensil thinking that Nazis were taking them to another place for re-settlement. One display case about 30 metres long displays human hair of the victims. Before killing the persons, the SS removed the hairs. They opened the museum in 1947 for the public. The museum was to honor the victims of the Nazism. The people later on scattered the ashes of the victims between the huts. They see the entire area as a gravesite. 

The UNESCO had declared the site as a World Heritage Site.

In 1979, Polish Pope John Paul II celebrated Mass on the grounds of Auschwitz II. After the pope had announced beatification of Edith Stein, Catholics erected a cross near bunker 2 of Auschwitz II where SS had gassed Edith Stein. After some time, a Star of David appeared at the site. Many religious symbols appeared. Finally people removed all of them. 

In 1984, Carmelites opened a convent near Auschwitz I. When Jewish groups protested, they removed the convent in 1987. In 1988, Carmelites erected one 8 metre tall cross outside the block 11. When the Jewish group protested saying that most of the killed were Jewish people, 300 smaller crosses appeared by 1998. Finally, people removed the smaller crosses but the larger one continues to stand. 

On 27th January 1945, the Red Army of the Soviet Union had freed the Auschwitz camps. In 1996, Germany honors the victims of Nazism on 27th January. In 2005, the European Parliament marked the anniversary of the camp's liberation in 2005 with a minute of silence. The European Parliament also passed a resolution condemning the murder of about 1.5 million people at Auschwitz camps. The resolution also told about “the disturbing rise in anti-semitism, and especially anti-semitic incidents, in Europe, and for learning anew the wider lessons about the dangers of victimizing people on the basis of race, ethnic origin, religion, social classification, politics or sexual orientation."

The communist governments of the Soviet Union and Poland had noted on a memorial plate out of the Auschwitz camps. The plated showed number of killed as 4 million. After the fall of the communist government in Poland in 1989, the plate showed a different figure: 1.1 million. People who try to deny about the Holocaust had used this variance in the figures to claim that Holocaust was something like a propaganda. However, the fact remains that more than SS killed at least 1.1 million persons in Auschwitz camps, and Holocaust is a fact of history. 

Recently the Polish media and the government had raised objections on the use of the name like "Polish death camps" to describe the Auschwitz camps. Use of such a name was misleading and gave an impression of involvement of Poland. On April 1, 2006, a Polish Culture Ministry spokesman said that the government requested that UNESCO change the name from "Auschwitz Concentration Camp" to "Former Nazi German Concentration Camp Auschwitz-Birkenau". This was necessary to avoid misleading the public in believing that Nazis of Germany ran the camps and not the authorities of the Poland. 

The Polish government had allowed filming at the sites for two films, and a TV series. However, in some cases, they had disallowed filming inside the camps. In February 2006, Poland refused visas to some researchers from Iran to visit Auschwitz. They took this step as the President of Iran Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has dismissed the Holocaust as false.

<TITLE>Archery</TITLE>
Archery is the practice of using a bow to shoot arrows. Archery has historically been used in hunting and combat and has become a precision sport. A person practicing archery is called an archer, and one who is fond of or an expert at archery is sometimes called a toxophilite.

 The earliest evidence of archery dates back more than 5,000 years. The bow probably was used in hunting first and was then adopted as a tool of warfare. It was one of the earliest forms of artillery. 

Classical civilizations, notably the Persians, Macedonians, Nubians, Greeks, Parthians, Indians, Japanese, Chinese, and Koreans, fielded large numbers of archers in their armies. Arrows proved exceptionally destructive against massed formations, and the use of archers often proved decisive.

<TITLE>Aeschylus</TITLE>
Aeschylus was an Ancient Greek writer who wrote about 76 plays. Only six of his tragedies have survived complete. Aeschylus was the earliest of the three greatest Ancient Greek writers of tragedies. The two others were Sophocles and Euripides. He is the first person to write tragedies. 

Aristotle said that Aeschylus added more characters into his plays. His characters spoke to each other and not just to the chorus. This made it easier to create drama between the characters.

One of his plays, The Persians, was about the Persian invasion of Greece. Aeschylus had fought in this war. People studying Greek history use his play as an important source of information. The war was so important to the Greeks and to Aeschylus, that the writing on his grave only talks about about his part in the Greek victory at Marathon. There is nothing about the plays he wrote.

 Aeschylus was born about the year 525 BC in a small town called Eleusis, which is about 27 kilometers northwest of Athens. The date is based on counting back forty years from his first victory in the Great Dionysia. His family was rich, and his father, Euphorion, was a member of the Eupatridae, the ancient nobility of Attica. Pausanias wrote that Aeschylus worked in a vineyard until the god Dionysus visited him in his sleep. The god ordered him to write the first tragedies. His first play was performed in 499 BC, when he was only 26 years old.

 In 490 BC the Persian army, led by Darius, landed in Greece and tried to take it over. Aeschylus, and his brother Cynegeirus, joined the army from Athens and fought against the Persians at the Battle of Marathon. The Athenians were able to defeat the much bigger Persian army. This battle, which stopped Darius, was celebrated across the city-states of Greece. Cynegeirus died in the battle. In 480 BC, Xerxes I of Persia, tried to capture Greece. Aeschylus fought against them at the Battle of Salamis and at the Battle of Plataea in 479 BC. His oldest surviving play The Persians, performed in 472 BC, is set during the Battle of Salamis. This play won first prize at the Dionysia.

 Aeschylus was one of many Greeks who joined the Eleusinian Mysteries. This was the religious cult to Demeter, and based in his home town of Eleusis. Members of the group learned mystical and secret knowledge. Members were sworn under the penalty of death not to say anything about the Mysteries to anyone. Aristotle wrote that some people thought that Aeschylus had shown some of the cult's secrets on stage. Other writers said that an angry mob tried to kill Aeschylus on the spot, but he ran away. Later, Aeschylus said he did not know that he had shown any of the secrets. He was saved from death only because of his brave service in the Persian Wars.

 Aeschylus made two trips to Sicily in the 470s BC. He was invited by Hieron, tyrant of Syracuse, a big Greek city on the east side of the island. On one these trips he wrote The Women of Aetna , in honor of the city founded by Hieron. He also restaged his Persians. By 473 BC, Aeschylus was the yearly favorite in the Dionysia, winning first prize in nearly every competition. In 458 BC, he returned to Sicily for the last time, visiting the city of Gela where he died in 456 or 455 BC. It is said that he was killed by a tortoise which fell out of the sky after it was dropped by an eagle. This story is probably only a legend. Aeschylus' work was so respected by the Athenians that after his death, his were the only tragedies allowed to be restaged in future competitions. His sons Euphorion and Euæon, and his nephew Philocles, all wrote plays as well.

Greek drama began with festivals for the gods, mainly Dionysus, the god of wine. During Aeschylus' lifetime, dramatic competitions became part of the City Dionysia in the spring. The festival began with an opening procession, then a competition of boys singing dithyrambs, and finally two dramatic competitions. The first competition was for three playwrights each presenting three tragic plays, followed by a shorter comedy. A second competition of five comedic playwrights followed, and the winners of both competitions were chosen by a group of judges.

Aeschylus took part in many of these competitions in his lifetime. He is believed to have written between 70 and 90 plays. Only six tragedies have survived intact: The Persians, Seven against Thebes, The Suppliants, the trilogy known as The Oresteia, consisting of the three tragedies Agamemnon, The Libation Bearers and The Eumenides. There is also the play Prometheus Bound, but this was probably written by someone else. All of the surviving plays won first prize at the City Dionysia. One book, the Alexandrian Life of Aeschylus, said that he won the first prize at the City Dionysia 13 times. Sophocles' won 18 times out of his 120 plays, and Euripides only had five wins out of about 90 plays.

When Aeschylus first began writing, the theatre was new. Some playwrights like Thespis had made the cast bigger to include an actor who was able to talk with the chorus. Aeschylus added a second actor, allowing for more drama; and the chorus became less important. He is said to have been the first to use skenographia, or scene-decoration, but Aristotle said the first person was Sophocles. Aeschylus also added more details to the costumes, and had his actors wear platform boots, called cothurni, to help the audience see them better. When they walked on stage in the first performance of the Eumenides, the chorus of Furies were so frightening in looks that they made young children faint, old men urinate, and pregnant women go into labor.

His plays were written in the strict style of Greek drama. They were in verse and no violence could be performed on stage. The plays had to be set away from normal life in Athens, either by telling stories about the gods or by being set, like The Persians, in a far-away place. Aeschylus' work has a strong moral and religious emphasis. The Oresteia plays were about man's position in the universe in relation to the gods, the laws of the gods, and punishment from the gods. 

Fifty years after Aeschylus' death, the comic playwright Aristophanes praised him in the The Frogs. Aeschylus is a character in the play and says that his Seven against Thebes "made everyone watching it to love being warlike" ; with his Persians, he says he "taught the Athenians to desire always to defeat their enemies" . He says that his plays helped the Athenians to be brave and virtuous .

<TITLE>Anne Brontë</TITLE>
Anne Brontë was an English writer and poet. She is most famous for writing Agnes Grey and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall .

Anne was born on January 17, 1820 in Thornton, Yorkshire, England. She was the daughter of Patrick and Marie Brontë and the youngest of their six children. She was taught at her family's home in Haworth by her sister, Charlotte. She worked as a governess in 1839 and then again between 1841 and 1845.

In 1846 Anne contributed 21 poems to Poems by Currer, Ellis and Acton Bell. This was a joint work with her sisters, Charlotte and Emily. Agnes Grey was published in 1847 in three volumes with Wuthering Heights, a book written by her sister Emily. The Tenant of Wildfell Hall was published in 1848 and sold well.

Anne Bronte died on May 28, 1849 in Scarborough, Yorkshire, England of tuberculosis.

<TITLE>Augustine of Hippo</TITLE>
Aurelius Augustinus, Augustine of Hippo, or Saint Augustine was a philosopher, theologian, and was bishop of the North African city of Hippo Regius for the last part of his life. Augustine is one of the most important figures in the development of Western Christianity, and is considered to be one of the church fathers. He framed the concepts of original sin and just war.

In Roman Catholicism and the Anglican Communion, he is a saint and Doctor of the Church, and the patron of the Augustinian religious order. Many Protestants, especially Calvinists, consider him to be one of the theological fathers of Reformation teaching on salvation and grace. In the Eastern Orthodox Church he is a saint, and his feast day is celebrated annually on June 15. Among the Orthodox he is called Blessed Augustine, or St. Augustine the Blessed. "Blessed" here does not mean that he is less than a saint, but is a title bestowed upon him as a sign of respect. The Orthodox do not remember Augustine so much for his theological speculations as for his writings on spirituality. 

<TITLE>Ares</TITLE>
Ares is the god of savage war and bloodlust in Greek mythology. He is the son of Zeus and Hera. He is one of the Twelve Olympians. Neither parent liked him. He is considered murderous and bloody. In the Trojan war, he fought on the side of Troy. He was caught having sex with Aphrodite, and fled to his homeland of Thrace.

<TITLE>Advance Australia Fair</TITLE>
Advance Australia Fair is the official national anthem of Australia. 

Peter Dodds McCormick wrote the music and the words for the song. It was first performed in 1878, but it only became Australia's official anthem in 1984. 

Between 1878 and 1984, the song was used inside of Australia as a patriotic song. For a time the song announced the news from the Australian Broadcasting Commission. When Australia became a Federation in 1901, the song was sung by a choir of 10,000 people.

In 1977 there was a vote for the national anthem between four songs. The other three songs were:

Advance Australia Fair received 43.29% of the vote, defeating the three alternatives: Waltzing Matilda , Song of Australia , and the existing national anthem God Save the Queen . However, it was not until 1984 that the national anthem was changed to reflect the popular vote.

Other songs and marches have been influenced by Advance Australia Fair, such as the Australian Vice-Regal salute.

<TITLE>Amerigo Vespucci</TITLE>
Amerigo Vespucci was an Italian merchant, explorer and cartographer. He was the first person to explain that the New World discovered by Christopher Columbus in 1492 was not the eastern area of Asia, but an unknown continent .

It is also popularly believed that North and South America derive their name from a Latinized version his first name.

He died of malaria.

<TITLE>Auguste Rodin</TITLE>
Auguste Rodin was a French sculptor. He made solid objects from stone or clay. His most famous works are 'The Thinker' and 'The Kiss'. 

<TITLE>Ann Arbor, Michigan</TITLE>
Ann Arbor is a city in Michigan and the home of the University of Michigan. It is sometimes referred to as "New York West" or "San Francisco of the Midwest".

<TITLE>Aircraft hijacking</TITLE>
Aircraft hijacking is the takeover of an aircraft, by a person or group, usually armed. In most cases the pilot is forced to fly according to the orders of the hijackers. Sometimes the hijackers fly the planes themselves, as believed to have occurred in the September 11, 2001 attacks. In one case the official pilot hijacked the plane, when he diverted his internal Air China flight to Taiwan.

<TITLE>Acropolis of Athens</TITLE>
The 'Acropolis of Athens' is the most famous acropolis. It is a large hill in the center of Athens, on which the Parthenon and some other Greek buildings were built. It is often known as The Acropolis.

<TITLE>Aeronautics</TITLE>
Aeronautics is the study or science of how to build and operate flying machines. In modern times this mostly means aeroplanes or helicopters. the premier organisations involved inits application are NASA in the US ,ISRO in india.

<TITLE>Acts of the Apostles</TITLE>
The Acts of the Apostles is a book of the Bible, which now is the fifth in the New Testament. It is often simply called Acts.

Acts tells the story of the Early Christian church, with particular interest for the ministry of the Twelve Apostles and of Paul of Tarsus. The early chapters, play in Jerusalem, report Jesus's Resurrection, his Ascension, the Day of Pentecost, and the start of the Twelve Apostles' ministry. The later chapters report Paul's conversion, his ministry, and finally his arrest and imprisonment and trip to Rome.  Most people think that the author of Acts also wrote the Gospel of Luke. The traditional view is that both the two books were written c. 60 by a companion of Paul named Luke. Many theologians still think so. But some modern scholars think the books were written by an unknown author at a later date, sometime between 80 and 150. 

<TITLE>Assyria</TITLE>
In the Middle Bronze Age Assyria was a region on the Upper Tigris river, named for its original capital, the ancient city of Assur. Assyrians made the Cuneiform writing system.

<TITLE>Asterix</TITLE>
Asterix is a French comic book, created by René Goscinny and Albert Uderzo . Goscinny died in 1977 and Uderzo continues to draw and write the series by himself. The title character Asterix is a Gaul, a member of Celtic tribe that lived in France, many years ago. Asterix lives in a small village in northwest Gaul during the time of Julius Caesar in 50 BC. Unlike, the rest of Gaul, this village has not been taken over by the Romans, because the people in the village drink a magic potion brewed by their druid. Asterix has many adventures with his friend, Obelix. The stories have been adapted into movies and video games, there is even an amusement park.

<TITLE>Arizona Cardinals</TITLE>
The Arizona Cardinals are a professional American football team based in Phoenix, Arizona. They are the oldest continuous professional American football club in the United States, founded in 1898 in Chicago, Illinois. They moved to St. Louis, Missouri in 1960 before moving to Phoenix in 1988. The head coach of the team is Ken Whisenhunt.There quarterback is Kurt Warner. Arizon Cardinals play their home games at the University of Phoenix Stadium.

<TITLE>Atlanta Falcons</TITLE>
The Atlanta Falcons are an American football team in Atlanta, Georgia. They are a member of the NFC South of the National Football Conference in the National Football League . The Falcons joined the NFL as a 1966 expansion team. In their 42 years in the NFL, the Falcons have a record of 262-386-6 with division championships in 1980, 1998 and 2004, and appeared in Super Bowl XXXIII in Miami, Florida.

<TITLE>Astrology</TITLE>
Astrology is the study of the planets which circle the sun. A person who does astrology is called an astrologer .

An astrologer looks at the planets' positions and tries to understand a person's character or tries to predict the future.

Astrology and astronomy started out as the same thing, but today they are very different. 

Astronomy looks at the stars for science, but astrology looks at the planets' positions to understand people and their future.

Most scientists think that astrology does not work, because there is no scientific evidence.

A person's astrological sign is based on his birthday. This table shows the zodiac names in Latin with their English translation. It also shows the element and quality associated with each sign.

<TITLE>Arizona Diamondbacks</TITLE>
The Arizona Diamondbacks are a Major League Baseball team based in Phoenix, Arizona. They were started in 1998. They play their home games at Chase Field. In 2001, they beat the New York Yankees to win their first World Series, becoming the fastest new team to do this.

<TITLE>Aesthetics</TITLE>
Aesthetics is a branch of philosophy. It is the philosophy of art and beauty. Together with ethics it is part of axiology which is the philosophy of what people like.

Aesthetic philosophers ask what people like to look at, hear, feel, smell or taste, and why they like these things. Aesthetic philosophers also ask if art has any value. For example they may ask if some art that nobody likes and that nobody wants is art at all, or if it is something else.

One theory in aesthetics is called subjectivism. Subjectivism says that each person has their own sense of beauty. So the only way of judging something's beauty is if people say it is beautiful, that beauty is 'in the eye of the beholder'. Subjectivism also says, for the same reason, that something is art simply because I say it is art. This is backed up by the fact that, even though we instictively know when we find something beautiful, we are usually at a loss to explain, even to ourselves, why it attracts us. 

Many aesthetic philosophers do not like subjectivism, because it is such an unsatisfactory answer; Even though it is difficult to identify rules which show why certain things are 'definitely' beautiful, everybody agrees that some objects are more beautiful or interesting than others. This suggests that art and beauty are somehow to do with the object itself, as well as with the person who experiences that object. 

Subjectivism also fails to provide a useful distinction between good art and bad art. This is an issue which many people are interested to resolve, partly because they want to develop their sense of beauty, and partly because people who are active in the arts feel strongly that differences of opinion are not just personal differences in taste, but important differences of attitude about the use and the value of art - is it an educational process or a commercial product? Is it a way of exploring our inner lives or should it be a medium of state propaganda? When we clarify these issues, it becomes clear, in turn what we really mean to say by statements like, 'This art is beautiful'.

Many objectivist theories of beauty have been offered, going from very ancient ideas Plato and Aristotle which still have great appeal in their own way to neuroscience research into the brain's response to images and other sense stimulae. At the moment, even though we don't know what people are thinking, brain-scan technology can identify when people are responding pleasurably to images, providing some clue as to how certain images affect some people.

Plato, Aristotle and Immanuel Kant are some important philosophers of aesthetics.

<TITLE>Ark of the Covenant</TITLE>
The Ark of the Covenant is described in the Bible as a holy container where the tablets of stone with the Ten Commandments and other holy Israelite pieces are contained. 

According to the Biblical account, the Ark was built at the command of God, following Moses' prophetic vision on Mount Sinai .

 The Hebrew word aron is used in the Bible to designate any type of ark or chest, for any purpose . The Ark of the Covenant is distinguished from all others by such titles as "Ark of God" , "Ark of the Covenant" , "Ark of the Testimony" . The Ark is a raised cupboard found in Jewish Synagogues which contains the holy Torah scrolls. These are all written by hand and can take years to make. It is always on the wall of the Synagogue which faces towards Jerusalem. When the Ark is opened and the Torah removed for reading everyone stands in respect of God. During some prayers and services the Ark doors an inner curtain are kept open.

 The Bible describes the Ark as made of acacia or shittah-tree wood. It was a cubit and a half broad and high, and two and a half cubits long . The Ark was covered all over with the purest gold. 

<TITLE>Angles</TITLE>
The Angles were a Germanic people of unknown origin. Their name seems to be connected with Angeln, a modern district located in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. 

The Angles, together with the Jutes, Saxons and Frisians, were mentioned amongst the Germanic tribes who sailed across the North Sea to raid and eventually invade Great Britain.

<TITLE>Atlanta Braves</TITLE>
The Atlanta Braves are a Major League baseball team in Atlanta, Georgia. The Braves' home stadium is Turner Field where they have been playing at since 1997. From 1991 to 2005 the Braves, with the exception of 1994 because of a strike, won their division. They won the World Series in 1995 against the Cleveland Indians. One famous player that was on the Braves was Hank Aaron, from 1954 to 1976.

<TITLE>Aaliyah</TITLE>
Aaliyah Dana Haughton was an African-American rhythm and blues singer and actor. Her parents moved with her to Detroit, Michigan when she was twenty years old. She was going to be in The Matrix Reloaded film, but the filmmakers had to use another person after she died.

Aaliyah was borm on january 16, 1979 in New York. She grew up in Detroit . From her youth, she began to sing : she did singing competitions, castings and shows. Her career began in 1994 with her album " Age ain't nothing but a number " but she continued going to High School of the Performing Arts. In 1996, Aaliyah's second album came out with R.Kelly as producer : " One in a million ". Her music seduced a public always bigger. Aaliyah always wished playing act and she had her leading role in " Romeo must die " realised by Andrzei Bartkowiak . And then she played in " Queen of the damned " in 2000 too. In 2001, she came back with her third album called " Aaliyah ", the most personal of her whole career. She put a lot into it, as a singer and as an executive producer with her uncle by her side. It's the album of maturity. Unfortunately, she died on august 25, 2001 in a plane crash in the Bahamas. 

<TITLE>Armour</TITLE>
Armour is a protective covering or clothing used to try to prevent injury when being attacked. Armour can be worn by a person, or it can be used to protect machines, animals, even buildings. Armour has always been made from the strongest materials available at the time, but weight has always been a problem. Early armour was made from leather, then later metals were used . Some modern armour, like bullet-proof vests, are made from plastics that don't stretch or break, such as Kevlar. These plastics may be woven into a cloth and used in layers, which makes them even stronger.

 Armour put on vehicles is usually made of metal and can include one layer over another with open spaces in between or multiple layers of metal; ceramics , and other materials. Another type of armour uses blocks of explosive that explode when another explosion goes off near it. This explosive armour protects by pushing against the other explosion. Vehicle armor is often angled to increase the amount of armour that must be shot through to get inside and to make the shot bounce off rather than piercing the armour.

Tanks have the heaviest armour of all land vehicles. Other military vehicles have armour, but not as much as a tank. 

Sometimes armour is put in non-military vehicles, such as limousines used by leaders of a country or by anyone who thinks they might be attacked, eg film stars or presidents of major companies.

 In the past, armour has also been used in wars to protect animals such as dogs, elephants, and horses. Today, police dogs and horses sometimes wear woven plastic bullet-proof vests.

 Many sports involve violent physical contact and may be highly dangerous if the players are unprotected. Such sports include ice hockey, American football and kendo. Sports armour is usually made from hard plastic.

<TITLE>All Quiet on the Western Front</TITLE>
All Quiet on the Western Front is a famous book by the German author Erich Maria Remarque. It was first published in 1929.

 It is about a German soldier named Paul Bäumer as he fights together with his classmates in World War I. Troops are changed every couple of weeks; they are either sent to the front line or a few miles back. At the beginning, Baumer and his fellow soldiers are very full and satisfied because a very heavy bombardment killed off half of the company.

A number of soldiers and Baumer are injured one night, and all are taken to the local hospital. In there, when a nurse gives Baumer a temperature gauge, he uses a light and makes his temperature seem much higher than it really is. This is so he can go into critical care with his friends. While there, the nurses sing a hymn, which annoys the men. Baumer throws and breaks a bottle to make them shut the door.

One night, Baumer and his friends find two live pigs. They put together a feast. Baumer cooks some kind of cakes. They smoke cigarettes and drink coffee from the officer's dump and then roast the pigs. The meal is very good, but the pig meat sticks to their bowels and makes them go to the bathroom all night.

As the war draws to its end in 1918, the Germans are suffering. The food bad and the men must keep going to the bathroom. The Americans have joined the war and are pushing back all of the ground that the Germans gained. During this time, many of Baumer's classmates die.

At the end of the novel, Baumer dies. The day was so quiet that the field commander described the day as "all quiet on the Western Front."

 The book sold 2.9 million copies in 50 languages in eighteen months. It is published by Ballantine Books in 1929. This book and its sequel, The Road Back, were banned and burned in Nazi Germany. The film version won the Academy Award for Best Picture in 1930.

<TITLE>Afrikaans</TITLE>
Afrikaans is a West Germanic language mainly spoken in South Africa and Namibia. It was originally the dialect that developed among the Afrikaner Protestant settlers, the unfree workers, and slaves brought to the Cape area in southwestern South Africa by the Dutch East India Company between 1652 and 1705. Most of these first settlers were from the United Provinces , though there were also many from Germany, some from France, a few from Scotland, and various other countries. The unfree workers and slaves were Malays, and Malagasy in addition to the native Khoi and Bushmen.

Research by J. A. Heese says that until 1807, 36.8% of the ancestors of the White Afrikaans speaking population were Dutch, 35% were German, 14.6% were French and 7.2% non-white . Heese's figures are questioned by other researchers, however, and especially the non-white component quoted by Heese is very much in doubt.

A sizeable minority of those who spoke Afrikaans as a first language were not white. The dialect became known as "Cape Dutch". Later, Afrikaans was sometimes called "African Dutch" or "Kitchen Dutch". Afrikaans was considered a Dutch dialect until the early 20th century, when it began to be widely known as a different language. The name Afrikaans is simply the Dutch word for African, and the language is the African form of Dutch.

<TITLE>ABC</TITLE>
ABC could also mean: easy as counting .

<TITLE>Arsenal F.C.</TITLE>
Arsenal Football Club is an English football club.

The club plays in the English Premier League. They won the First Division and English Premier League 13 times and the FA Cup 10 times. They are the only British club to have been the subject of a feature film.

It was founded in 1886 and was originally called Dial Square F.C. named after a sundial on the side of a factory. The team plays in a traditional red and white kit. They played at Arsenal Stadium in Highbury in north London from 1913 - 2006, but now they play in a new stadium called the Emirates Stadium. The current captain of the side is Cesc Fàbregas, a Spanish national football player.   The manager of Arsenal F.C. is Arsène Wenger. Their assistant manager is Pat Rice. Their new Emirates Stadium was opened on the 27th of October 2006, by the Duke of Edinburgh. Arsenal also has a women's team called Arsenal Ladies F.C.. The ladies team is the only team in women's football history to have ever won four trophies in one season. The most famous, and successful, Arsenal manager ever is thought to be Herbert Chapman. Chapman won the First Division with Arsenal twice and the FA Cup once.

<TITLE>Atlantis</TITLE>
Atlantis is a name for a large island or small continent that might have been in the Atlantic Ocean a long time ago, but sank into the sea and disappeared.

The story of Atlantis first appears in the stories Timaeus and Critias by the Greek philosopher Plato. In all of his books, Plato used many interesting stories to help explain his ideas about government and philosophy. No other ancient writer gave specific details about Atlantis until after Plato wrote, so most people today think that Plato just made up this story.

After Plato, the idea of Atlantis was mostly forgotten until 1882, when a writer named Ignatius Donnelly wrote a book saying that Atlantis was real and that the culture of Atlantis had started many other ancient cultures, such as the Egyptian and Mayan. 

After Donnelly's book, many people became interested in Atlantis and began to say that it had aircraft, submarines, powerful energy crystals, and other things that are not known from ancient times.

By studying the types of rock that are found in the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean, scientists are sure that there was never really any large island or small continent there, so many people today think that Plato may have heard a story about another place and moved it to the Atlantic Ocean in his book.

Different people have thought that many places all over the world have been the place of the "real Atlantis" Curiously, many cultures from around the world who had no contact shared a similar story of a civilization sinking into the sea.

<TITLE>Autobiography</TITLE>
An autobiography is a book in which the author writes about his or her own life. A biography is a book about someone's life. The Latin word "auto" means "self", so an "autobiography" is a biography about oneself. Many famous people wrote autobiographies. The origin of autobiography is from Greek. 

<TITLE>Arab people</TITLE>
The Arabs are an originally Arabian ethnicity widespread in the Middle East and North Africa.

There are many people who can be called Arabs by these points who do not think of themselves as Arab. One such example includes the original Egyptians and the Syriacs. Although they live in countries like Syria or Egypt which is part of the Arab League and are forced to speak the official language-Arabic, they are a different group. They have their own language, culture, identity and churches like the Coptic Orthodox and the Syriac Catholic and Orthodox churches. Even though many have assimilated to Arab society, they have their own heritage that spans 3,000 years. 

Just because they live in a certain place and the government of those places act in a certain way, that doesn't make people a different race. 

That is the cruelty of modern Arab governments like Saddam Hussein's aggression against Kurds. Many even view the government of Syria as a "fake" or untrue "Syrian land."

 In Islamic and Jewish tradition, Arabs are a Semitic people who trace their ancestry from Ishmael, a son of the ancient patriarch Abraham and Hagar. Medieval Arab genealogists separate the Arabs into two groups: the "original Arabs" of South Arabia, descending from Qahtan and the "Arabized Arabs" of North Arabia, descending from Adnan who is descended from Ishmael.

<TITLE>Armadillo</TITLE>
Armadillos are small placental mammals, known for having a bony armor shell. The Dasypodidae are the only surviving family in the order Cingulata, part of the superorder Xenarthra together with the anteaters and sloths. The word armadillo is Spanish for "little armored one". 

There are approximately 10 extant genera and around 20 extant species of armadillo. Their average length is about 75 centimeters , including tail. The Giant Armadillo grows up to 100 cm and weigh 30 kg . All species live in the Americas. 

<TITLE>Abdulaziz al-Omari</TITLE>
Abdulaziz al-Omari was named by the FBI as one of the hijackers of the first plane which was crashed into the World Trade Center in the September 11, 2001 attacks.

<TITLE>Arabic alphabet</TITLE>
The Arabic alphabet is an alphabet that has been used to write the Arabic language. Some other languages use a similar writing system; examples are Persian and Urdu.

There are 28 basic letters. All of them are cursive, both in handwriting and in print. This means that inside a word, a letter is usually directly connected to the letter following it. Arabic is written from right to left. Each letter can have up to 4 different forms. Which of the forms is used depends on the letters before and after it. The form for uppercase letters and lowercase letters is the same. 

The alphabet can also be used to write numbers. This was common in the Middle Ages. Today it can be found more rarely. Usually, Latin-alphabet numbers are used.

Another usage that is rare today, is to use the letters of the alphabet to stand for numbers. That way, the letter is 1,   is 2,   is 3, and so on until 

 = 1000. This is sometimes used to produce chronograms.

<TITLE>Armenian language</TITLE>
The Armenian language is a Indo-European language.

The Armenian language is an Indo-European language spoken by Armenians. It is the official language of the Armenia as well as in the region of Nagorno-Karabakh. The language is also widely spoken by Armenian communities all over the world. It has its own alphabet, the Armenian alphabet.

<TITLE>Aircraft carrier</TITLE>
Aircraft carriers are warships that carry airplanes and other aircraft. They are used by navies to allow airplanes to fight along with naval warships. Aircraft carriers are usually very large, carrying hundreds or thousands of sailors and tens or hundreds of aircraft.

The top of an aircraft carrier is called the flight deck and looks like a very small airport. Old aircraft carriers carried airplanes that could takeoff and land in the short distance of the flight deck without help. Similarly, small modern aircraft carriers only carry helicopters or specially designed airplanes that can take off and land straight up and down or in the short distance of the flight deck. The flight deck of a large, modern aircraft carrier has a landing area and a take-off area. The landing area is in the back and has a short runway. Airplanes stop by using a hook on the back of the airplane to grab wires stretched across the runway. In the front, the flight deck has a steam-powered catapult that connects to the front wheel of an airplane. The catapult throws the airplane off the deck, helping it take off quickly.

Because they are so big, modern aircraft carriers often have on-board nuclear power plants. Other aircraft carriers are powered by diesel engines.

Except for their airplanes, aircraft carriers usually have few weapons, so other warships escort them. Together, the aircraft carrier and these warships form a carrier group.

<TITLE>Apicomplexa</TITLE>
The Apicomplexa are a large group of protists, characterized by the presence of a unique organelle called an apical complex . They are unicellular, spore-forming, and exclusively parasites of animals. Motile structures such as flagella or pseudopods are absent except in certain gamete stages. This is a diverse group including organisms such as coccidia, gregarines, piroplasms, haemogregarines, and malarias; some diseases caused by apicomplexan organisms include:

<TITLE>Ad hominem</TITLE>
Ad hominem is a Latin term. It is used in rhetoric. Rhetoric is the science of how to speak well, and how to convince other people of your ideas. 

Translated to English, ad hominem means against the person . 

The term is used to describe a rhetorical argument, that is directed towards the person who says something, not about the cause at hand. It is a way to use reputation and rumour and hearsay to change minds.

When a social network has already excluded or exiled one person, or applied a label to them, this works more often.

Because it works and is also unfair to everyone who would benefit from what they say, it is considered to be a weak or poor argument. Formal disapproval of those who use it is common in a court or in diplomacy, where danger is high.

 In logic, a proof is something that starts with premises, and goes through a few logical arguments, to reach a conclusion.

In this example it can be seen that the fact that person A is uneducated and poor is used to prove that abortion should not be illegal.

<TITLE>Activism</TITLE>
Activism, in a general sense, can be described as the intentional action to bring about change, usually an important change.

<TITLE>Analgesic</TITLE>
Analgetics is a term for some drugs that are used to stop pain. These are also known as painkillers. There are several kinds of painkillers. All act on the nervous system. Most painkillers have the problem that they can make people addicted if they are taken over longer periods of time. 

<TITLE>April 3</TITLE>
April 3 is the 93rd day of the year in the Gregorian calendar. There are 272 days remaining until the end of the year.

<TITLE>Adrenal gland</TITLE>
The adrenal gland is a part of most mammals' bodies, it is located near the kidneys. Its name tells about its position . It helps control the levels of stress. It is involved in the production of steroid hormones. Among these hormones are Cortisol and Adrenaline. the gland sits on the kidney 

<TITLE>Aramaic language</TITLE>
Aramaic is a language that is 3000 years old, or even more. It is part of a group of languages called the Semitic languages. This group has Aramaic, Hebrew, Arabic and many other languages in it. Some old kingdoms used Aramaic language for business. Some religions use Aramaic for their meetings. Aramaic is the language of big parts of the two Bible books of Daniel and Ezra. It is the language of the Jewish Talmud. Most people think that Aramaic was the language of Jesus. Aramaic is spoken today by small groups of people.

In the 12th century BC, Aramaeans, the first speakers of Aramaic started to make their homes in today's countries of Syria, Iraq and east Turkey. Their language became more important. It became the most important language in the Middle East. Jewish speakers of Aramaic took the language with them to north Africa and Europe. Christian speakers of Aramaic took the language with them to Persia, India and even China. In the 7th century AD, Aramaic stopped being the most important language in the Middle East. The Arabic language became the new important language. But, Aramaic is still the language of writing and religion for Jews, Mandaeans and some Christians. Small groups of people still speak Aramaic in different parts of the Middle East. The wars of the last two centuries made many Aramaic speakers leave their homes and go to live in many, different places around the world.

Aramaic is not one language without any changes. Because many different people over many centuries spoke and wrote it, there are many different types of Aramaic languages. These different types are called dialects, but some of them are so different that they are like different languages. The different dialects make two groups: an Eastern group and a Western group. The division between them is around the line of the river Euphrates. We also divide up the dialects by their place in time. Old Aramaic is the name of the oldest dialects. Only special teachers learn Old Aramaic. Middle Aramaic is the group of dialects that people do not speak every day, but they use them for special things like writing and religion. Modern Aramaic is the group of dialects that people use every day. They are living languages.

<TITLE>Actinoid</TITLE>
The actinide series is the 15 chemical elements between actinium and lawrencium on the periodic table. They have the atomic numbers between 89 - 103. The actinide series is named after actinium. All of the elements are radioactive.

<TITLE>Arthur Miller</TITLE>
Arthur Miller was a famous American playwright, a person who writes plays. His most famous plays are All My Sons, Death of a Salesman and The Crucible. He also wrote for the movie The Misfits while he was married to Marilyn Monroe. She acted in this movie.

 Arthur Miller's family was a rich family from New York. During the Great Depression in the 1930s, the family lost all their money. Because Miller wanted to go to university, he had to work in a warehouse. He studied economics and history at the University of Michigan, and also learnt how to write plays. He married Mary Slattery in 1940.

 In 1944, Miller had his first play in a theatre on Broadway in New York, called The Man Who Had All the Luck. Not many people liked it so this play was stopped after one week. 

However, three years later, his play All My Sons became very popular. This play won the Pulitzer Prize for drama.

In 1949, he wrote Death of a Salesman, a story about the American Dream.

In 1953, he wrote The Crucible, a story about the Salem Witch Trials. He wrote this because of the McCarthyism of the 1950s, the fear that communism would take over America. A few years later, Miller was a accused of being a communist himself. He had to answer questions from the House Un-American Activities Committee, a group that Senator Joseph McCarthy made. 

In 1956, Miller divorced Mary Slattery so he could marry the actress Marilyn Monroe. During this marriage, he wrote for the movie The Misfits. Monroe acted in this movie. After five years of marriage, Monroe divorced him.

The following year, Miller married again. The photographer Inge Morath was his third wife, and they were together until she died in 2002. They had two children.

His son, Daniel, was born with Down Syndrome. Miller put him in a hospital and did not want to see him again. His daughter, Rebecca, married actor Daniel Day-Lewis, who asked Miller several times to contact his hospitalised son.

Arthur Miller died in Roxbury, Connecticut in 2005.

<TITLE>Area 51</TITLE>
Area 51 is the popular nickname for a military, or army, base in Nevada, USA. It is about 83 miles north-west of the city, Las Vegas. The bases main purpose is to test secret new aircraft and weapons. For this reason details about the base are kept quite secret. Because of all the secrecy there are many ideas and conspiracy theories about the base, the most famous being the idea that alien technology is kept there. 

<TITLE>Alkaloid</TITLE>
Alkaloids are chemical compounds that can be made naturally. They contain basic nitrogen atoms. The name comes from the word alkaline and was used to describe any alkaline containing nitrogen. Alkaloids are made by a large variety of organisms, such as bacteria, fungi, plants, and animals and are part of the group of natural products . Many alkaloids can be purification from basic substances by acid-base extraction. Many alkaloids are toxic to other organisms. Some alkaloids have a bitter taste.

<TITLE>Archbishop of Canterbury</TITLE>
The Archbishop of Canterbury is the spiritual leader of the Church of England and the Anglican Communion. He is the head of the Church, and lives in the English city of Canterbury. The leader is always chosen by the English ruler, or monarch. 

The office of Archbishop of Canterbury began in the year 597. In that year, Saint Augustine came to England, to the area called Kent. He had been sent by the Pope to convince the local people to become Christians. The people accepted him and Christianity when their King became a Christian. Since then, there has been an Archbishop at Canterbury in Kent.

The Archbishop of Canterbury used to be head of the Roman Catholic Church in England, but in the 1500s the English church broke away from the Roman church. The new church called itself the Church of England, and now the Archbishop is the leader of that church. The current Archbishop is Rowan Williams.

<TITLE>A.S. Roma</TITLE>
A.S. Roma is a football club which plays in Italy.

The club formed from a merger of three clubs ; Alba-Audace Roma, Fortitudo-Pro Roma and Roman in 1927.

The current captain of the club is Francesco Totti.

<TITLE>Antibody</TITLE>
Antibodies are special proteins. They are found in the blood or other body fluids of vertebrates. The immune system uses antibodies to identify foreign objects, such as bacteria and viruses. These objects are then neutralized, so that they can no longer cause problems and diseases. 

Each antibody is different. They are all designed to attack only one kind of virus or bacteria. For instance, an antibody designed to destroy smallpox are unable to hit the Bubonic plague or the common cold. An antibody resembles the letter "Y". At the two ends of the "Y" are specially shaped antigens that can only insert themselves in one type of germ. This is needed, because every antibody is different. When the antibody finds the germ it's after, it "knows" because of its special antigen. If the antibody can insert its antigen into the germ, it will go to work either destroying it by blocking it from "germ food" , or calling white blood cells to eat it, thereby killing whatever it was after. 

It is the job of the "humoral" section of the immune system to make antibodies.

Antibodies can be found almost anywhere in the blood. If a doctor were to look at one, he or she would call it a globulin, because that is what it is shaped like.

Antibodies are also made by special "B Cells" in the immune system. B cells only attack when their antibodies tell them to. Once alerted, the B cell goes to work, breaking germs down into nothing but harmless goo. In some cases, a B cell can't do it alone. When that happens, a T helper cell is called in to help.

<TITLE>Alessandro Scarlatti</TITLE>
Alessandro Scarlatti was an Italian composer. He lived in the Baroque period. He is especially famous for his operas and chamber cantatas. He is thought of as the founder of the Neapolitan school of opera. He was the father of the famous composer Domenico Scarlatti.

 Scarlatti was born in Palermo. At that time it was part of the Kingdom of Sicily. We know nothing about his musical education. When his opera Gli Equivoci nell sembiante was produced in Rome in 1679 the Queen of Sweden, who was living in Rome at the time, was very impressed and gave him the job of being her Maestro di cappella. In February 1684 he became Maestro di Cappella to the viceroy of Naples. He wrote many operas for him, as well as some music for important state occasions. 

In 1702 Scarlatti left Naples and went to Florence where he composed operas for Ferdinando de' Medici and for Cardinal Ottoboni, who made him his maestro di cappella. In 1703 he also got a similar job in Rome at the Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore. 

After visiting Venice and Urbino in 1707, Scarlatti went back to Naples in 1708, and stayed there until 1717. However, the audiences in Naples no longer seemed interested in his music. They liked their serious operas to include comic music. Some of his best operas were written for Rome where they were produced at the Teatro Capranica. He also wrote some church music and music for royal weddings. He died in Naples.

 Scarlatti's music forms an important link between the early Baroque Italian vocal styles of the 17th century and the classical period of the 18th century, which led to the music of Haydn and Mozart. 

Perhaps his greatest work is Mitridate Eupatore. Many of his later operas are full of music which allows the singers to show off. In his opera Teodora he was the first composer to use the orchestral ritornello . 

Some of his later operas written for Rome make the orchestra sound much more modern. He uses horns in the orchestra. This was a new idea.

As well as operas, Scarlatti composed at least five hundred chamber-cantatas. These are works for solo voice accompanied by orchestra. Hardly any of them were published, but they contain a lot of good music.

He also wrote masses including the St Cecilia Mass .

<TITLE>Aston Martin</TITLE>
Aston Martin Lagonda Limited is a luxury car company that was founded in 1913 by Lionel Martin and Robert Bamford.

The company name is derived from the Aston Clinton hill climb and one of the company's founders, Lionel Martin. Ford Motor Company owned Aston Martin until 2007, at which time it was sold to Investment Dar and Adeem Investments.

<TITLE>Andhra Pradesh</TITLE>
Andhra Pradesh is a state in the Republic of India. About 75,727,000 persons lived in this as reported in census of 2001. The eastern boundary is a 600-mile coastline along the Bay of Bengal. The state has an area of 106,195 mi² , it is bigger than Burkina Faso but smaller than Ecuador.

The capital city is Hyderabad.

<TITLE>Aalen</TITLE>
Aalen is a town in the German state of Baden-Württemberg. It is the capital of the Ostalbkreis district, and its largest town.

<TITLE>Alois Alzheimer</TITLE>
Alois Alzheimer, German Psychiatrist, is credited with the first published case of "presenile dementia", which Kraepelin would later identify as Alzheimer's disease.

<TITLE>American Airlines</TITLE>
American Airlines, Inc. is a Fort Worth, Texas, United States-based airline. 

<TITLE>Antidepressant</TITLE>
An antidepressant is a type of medication that is used to treat people with mood disorders including depression. There are different types of antidepressant, called monoamine oxidase inhibitors , tricyclic antidepressants , tetracyclic antidepressants , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors . Antidepressants work to improve the mood. Doctors think that when someone is depressed, the chemicals in their brain are not working properly. Antidepressants balance these chemicals, lifting the depression. 

<TITLE>Adhesive</TITLE>
An adhesive is a compound that adhere or bonds two items together. Adhesives may come from either natural or synthetic sources. Some modern adhesives are extremely strong, and are becoming increasingly important in modern construction and industry. 

 The first adhesives were natural gums and other plant resins. Archaeologists have found 6000-year-old ceramic vessels that had broken and been repaired using plant resin. 

<TITLE>Anthony Hopkins</TITLE>
Sir Philip Anthony Hopkins CBE is an Academy Award, Golden Globe and Emmy Award-winning movie, stage and television actor. He was born and raised in Wales, but became an American citizen in 2000. He is very famous for many roles in movies, especially as Doctor Hannibal Lecter in The Silence of the Lambs.

<TITLE>Application programming interface</TITLE>
An Application Programming Interface is a set of functions, procedures, methods or classes used by computer programs to request services from the operating system, software libraries or any other service providers running on the computer. A computer programmer uses the words in the API to make application programs.

Types of API include web services API like the Twitter API, which allows programs to use the API to receive updates on tweets.

<TITLE>Advanced Micro Devices</TITLE>
AMD is a large American company that makes computer hardware. It makes many different computer parts, but it is most famous for its central processing units, or CPUs. Today's most common CPU made by AMD is the Athlon 64. It started as a company that made products for Intel, another large hardware company.

<TITLE>Albrecht Dürer</TITLE>
Albrecht Dürer was a German painter, engraver and mathematician. 

He was born and died in Nuremberg, Germany and is best known as a maker of old master prints. His prints were often in a series, so that there is a group of different prints about a subject. The most famous series are the Apocalypse and his two series on the passion of Christ, the Great Passion and the Little Passion . 

Dürer's best known individual engravings include , and Melencolia I . His most iconic images are his woodcuts of the from the Apocalypse series, the "Rhinoceros", and numerous self-portraits in oils. Dürer possibly did not cut his own woodblocks but may have employed a skilled carver who followed his drawings faithfully. He painted a number of religious works in oils and made many brilliant watercolours and drawings, which through modern reproductions are now perhaps his best known works. 

Dürer's prints made him famous across Europe before he was 30, and many people say he is the greatest artist of the Renaissance in Northern Europe. 

Dürer was born on May 21, 1471, third child and second son of his parents, who had between fourteen and eighteen children. His father was a successful goldsmith from Ajtós, near Gyula in Hungary. 

Dürer's godfather was Anton Koberger, who left goldsmithing to become a printer and publisher in the year Dürer was born. He quickly became the most successful publisher in Germany, and owned twenty-four printing-presses and had many offices in Germany and abroad. His most famous publication was the Nuremberg Chronicle, published in 1493 in German and Latin. It had 1,809 woodcut pictures by the Wolgemut workshop. Dürer may well have worked on some of these, as the work on the project began while he was with Wolgemut. 

Dürer hadstarted to learn goldsmithing and drawing from his father. His father wanted him to continue his training as a goldsmith, but he was so good at drawing that he started as an apprentice to Michael Wolgemut at the age of fifteen in 1486. A self-portrait, a drawing in silverpoint, is dated 1484 . Wolgemut was the leading artist in Nuremberg at the time, and had a large workshop making different types of works of art, in particular woodcuts for books. Nuremberg was a rich city, a centre for publishing and many luxury trades. It had strong links with Italy, especially Venice, a relatively short distance across the Alps.

 .After completing his term of apprenticeship in 1489, Dürer followed the common German custom of taking a wanderjahre — in effect a gap year. Dürer was away nearly four years, travelling through Germany, Switzerland, and probably, the Netherlands. Dürer wanted to meet Martin Schongauer, the best engraver of Northern Europe, but Schongauer died shortly before Dürer's arrival. He stayed at the house of Schongauer's brother, and got some pictures that Schongauer owned. 

His first painted self-portrait is now in the Louvre. It was painted in Strasbourg, probably so that Dürer could send it back to his fiancée in Nuremberg.. In fact, very soon after he got back to Nuremberg, on July 7, 1494 Dürer was married to Agnes Frey. She was the daughter of a well known brass worker in the city. He was 23, and the marriage was arranged while Dürer was away travelling. his absence. They had no children, and most people think that they did not marry for love, but because it was good to link the two families. Also, a single man could not set up in business for himself in Nuremberg. Dürer painted some portraits of his wife, but experts say that they "lack warmth". The experts think that if Dürer loved his wife he would have taken more time over those pictures to make her look more beautiful and friendly. 

Within three months Dürer left for Italy. The start of plague in Nuremberg was one reason for his leaving. 

In Italy, he went to Venice where artists were working in a more modern style. Dürer wrote that Giovanni Bellini was the oldest and still the best of the artists in Venice. 

On his return to Nuremberg in 1495, Dürer opened his own workshop. He started to use what he learned in Italy more and more, so his work was quite different from the other artists in Nuremberg who used only the traditional German style. 

Dürer's father died in 1502 and his mother died in 1513. 

Dürer probably did not cut any of the woodblocks himself. This was a job for experts. But he had designed and cut woodblocks for woodcut as part of his training in Wolgemut's studio, and he had seen many carved and painted altarpieces made in the studio. This means he knew what could be made into a woodblock print, and how to work with the expert block cutters. Dürer either drew his design directly onto the woodblock itself, or glued a paper drawing to the block. Either way his drawing was destroyed when the block was cut. 

His famous series of sixteen great designs for the Apocalypse are dated 1498. He made the first seven scenes of the Great Passion in the same year, and a little later, a series of eleven on the Holy Family and saints. Around 1503–1505 he produced the first seventeen of a set illustrating the life of the Virgin, which he did not finish for some years. Neither these, nor the Great Passion, were published as sets until several years later, but prints were sold individually in considerable numbers.

The Venetian artist Jacopo de' Barbari, whom Dürer had met in Venice, visited Nuremberg in 1500, and Dürer said that he learned much about the new developments in perspective, anatomy, and Body proportions from him. de'Barbari did not want to tell Dürer everything he knew, so Dürer began his own studies, and he kept studying for the rest of his life. This is a series of drawings show Dürer's experiments in human proportion, before he made his famous engraving of Adam and Eve . This is the only existing engraving signed with his full name.

Dürer made large numbers of other practice drawings, especially for his paintings and engravings, and many survive, most famously the Praying Hands . He also continued to make images in watercolour and bodycolour , including a number of very beautiful still lives of meadow sections or animals, including his "Hare" .

 In early 1506, he returned to Venice and stayed there until the spring of 1507. By this time Dürer's engravings were very popular and were being copied. In Venice he was given a valuable commission from the emigrant German community for the church of San Bartolomeo. This was the altar-piece known as the Adoration of the Virgin or the Feast of Rose Garlands. It includes portraits of members of Venice's German community, but shows a strong Italian influence. Later, the Emperor Rudolf II took it to Prague. Other paintings Dürer made in Venice include, The Virgin and Child with the Goldfinch, Christ disputing with the Doctors , and a number of smaller works.

Dürer was admired by the Venetians, but he was back in Nuremberg by mid-1507. He stayed in Germany until 1520. His reputation had spread throughout Europe. He was on friendly terms with most of the major artists of Europe, and exchanged drawings with Raphael.

The years between and his journey to the Netherlands are divided according to the type of work he made. During the first five years, 1507–1511, after his return from Venice Dürer mostly painted. He made his four best paintings, Adam and Eve , Virgin with the Iris , the altarpiece the Assumption of the Virgin , and the Adoration of the Trinity by all the Saints . During this period he also completed the two woodcut series, the Great Passion and the Life of the Virgin.

He complained that painting did not make enough money, so from 1511 to 1514 he concentrated on printmaking. The famous works he made in this period were the thirty-seven woodcuts for the Little Passion, published first in 1511, and a set of fifteen small engravings on the same theme in 1512. In 1513 and 1514 he created his three most famous engravings, The Knight, Death, and the Devil , Melencolia I, and St. Jerome in his Study .

'Melencolia I' has a magic square which is believed to be the first seen in European art. The two numbers in the middle of the bottom row give the date of the engraving, 1514.

In 1515, he created his woodcut of the Rhinoceros. The rhinoceros was in Lisbon, but Durer never saw it. He made it from a sketch and description from another artist. It was not very lifelike, but still being used in some German school science text-books early last century.. The rhinoceros was from an extinct Indian species.

Up to 1520 he produced a wide range of works, including portraits in tempera on linen, experiments in etching on plates of iron, and parts of the Triumphal Arch and the Triumphs of Maximilian which were huge woodcut projects ordered by Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor.

In the summer of 1520 Dürer made his fourth and last major journey. 

He wanted to renew the Imperial pension Maximilian had given him. Maximilian had died in 1519, so the city of Nuremberg stopped paying it. Dürer also needed new patrons following the death of Maximilian, and to avoid an outbreak of sickness in Nuremberg.

He took his wife and her maid and left Nuremberg for the Netherlands in July 1520, to be at the coronation of the new emperor, Charles V. He travelled by the Rhine to Cologne, and then to Antwerp, where he made many drawings in silverpoint, chalk, and charcoal. 

Dürer went to Aachen for the coronation, but also made trips to Cologne, Nijmegen, 's-Hertogenbosch, Brussels, Bruges, Ghent, and Zeeland. In Brussels he saw "the things which have been sent to the king from the golden land" — the Aztec treasure that Hernán Cortés had sent home to Holy Roman Emperor Charles V following the fall of Mexico. Dürer wrote that this treasure trove "was much more beautiful to me than miracles. These things are so precious that they have been valued at 100,000 florins". Dürer appears to have been collecting for his own cabinet of curiosities, and he sent back to Nuremberg various animal horns, a piece of coral, some large fish fins, and a wooden weapon from the East Indies.

Dürer took many prints with him. He wrote in his diary to whom he gave, exchanged, or sold them, and for how much. This is some of the few times the price of prints was recorded, so historians think it very important to show the values of prints compared to paintings at that time. Dürer returned home in July 1521. He had an unknown illness which stayed with him for the rest of his life, and slowed his rate of work.

Back in Nuremberg, Dürer started work on a series of religious pictures. There are many practice sketches and studies but no big paintings from this time. This was partly because of his illness, but more because of the time he spent preparing to write books about geometry and perspective, the proportions of men and horses, and fortification. 

His writings show that Dürer was highly sympathetic to Martin Luther, and he may have been influential in the City Council declaring for Luther in 1525. However, he died before religious divisions had hardened into different "Catholic" and "Protestant"churches. Dürer probably thought of himself as a reform-minded Catholic. 

Dürer died in Nuremberg at the age of 56. He left money and goods worth 6,874 florins - a considerable sum. His workshop was a part of his large house. His widow lived there until her death in 1537. The house is now a museum.

<TITLE>Alban Berg</TITLE>
Alban Berg was an Austrian composer. Alban Berg and Anton Webern were both pupils of Arnold Schoenberg. All three composers in their own way changed the style of musical composition in the early 20th century. They grew up at a time when most composers were still writing Romantic music, but Schoenberg and his pupils started to write atonal music and then twelve-tone music in which all 12 notes in an octave are of the same importance. Although Berg wrote a lot of twelve-tone music he still managed to make it sound quite Romantic at times, more so than Schoenberg or Webern. His most important works are his two operas Wozzeck and Lulu and his Violin Concerto.

Berg was brought up in the centre of Vienna. His family had plenty of money, but when Berg’s father died in 1900 life became much harder for them. He did not do very well at school. He also had a love affair with a kitchenmaid, with whom he had a daughter.

He was interested in music, played the piano and had started to compose, but he had not done well enough in his school exams to get into the music conservatory. He was not interested in business like his father had been. He got an unpaid job. Then, in 1904, he started to study with Schoenberg. This was the first time he had been given proper music lessons. Two years later, his mother inherited some money, and Berg was then able to give up his unpaid job and concentrate on music.

Schoenberg taught him harmony, counterpoint and music theory, all the things one needs to know to compose well. Berg had lessons from him from 1904 until 1911. His first proper pieces include a Piano Sonata and a String quartet. Here he had already found the modern style which suited him. He wrote harmonies which seemed to float. He often wrote pieces with several movements which are all linked by a common theme. He also liked themes which are heard upside down, or palindromes, where the tune sounds the same forwards as backwards. He met a girl called Helene and they married in 1910.

Berg liked to listen to all kinds of music. In this way he was different to Schoenberg or Webern. Berg was interested in French composers such as Debussy, as well as jazz. He liked the modern theatre and the political works of the playwright Bertolt Brecht and the composer Kurt Weill. 

Berg was very grateful to Schoenberg for all that he had learned from him, but he still continued to be quite afraid of him. Schoenberg wrote many letters to him asking him to do things for him and often criticising him. Only in the 1920s, when Berg had become well-known, did Schoenberg start writing to him more like an equal friend.

Berg wrote Five Orchestral Pieces. It is one of the first important works he wrote without Schoenberg’s help. The music has some modern chords which must have sounded very shocking to the Viennese audience. On 31 March 1913 Schoenberg conducted a concert in Vienna which included some songs by Berg. People in the audience started to fight and the police had to be called. When Schoenberg wrote to Berg criticising his music, Berg lost all his self-confidence. Slowly he started to get more confidence again. He wrote Three Orchestral Pieces op 6. The music sounds quite like Mahler. There are a lot of musical ideas which grow into one another and make a rich sound.

During World War I Berg spent some time in an army training camp. This experience must have been in his mind when he wrote his opera Wozzeck. This opera became very famous. There were a lot of new ideas in it. It is not about a great hero, but about a simple man who is mistreated by people. The music, too, is very different from opera music up to that time. Although it was so modern it was a great success and made Berg world-famous. It gave him more money which, together with a little teaching, allowed him to spend most of his time composing.

Wozzeck has a little twelve tone music in it, but in his next works the twelve tone system is much more important. He wrote Lyrical Suite for String Quartet and a Kammerkonzert in which the form is made up by mathematical rules. He liked to hide things in his music e.g. favourite numbers or letters from people’s names. These are like secret codes and, in later years, musicians have spent a lot of time trying to work out what Berg was trying to do.

In 1928 Berg started work on his second and last opera: Lulu. He had thought about the opera for many years. He had seen a play called Die Büchse des Pandora in 1905. Wedekind had played the part of Jack the Ripper. People thought the play was obscene, but it still became very popular, especially after 1918 when there was no more censorship in Germany. He worked on the opera until 1934. He then stopped work on it to write his Violin Concerto. When he heard about the sad death from poliomyelitis of a young girl he knew called Manon Gropius, he dedicated the concerto to her memory. He wrote: “To the memory of an angel”. Manon’s mother, Alma, had been the wife of Gustav Mahler.

Soon after he had finished the concerto Berg was stung by an insect. Soon he had an abscess and he was rushed to hospital but he died. The Violin Concerto had not yet been performed. He had not finished Lulu. The third act was only sketched in short score . When the opera was first performed, Act III was just acted out in mime while some other music by Berg was played. Berg’s widow Helene did not want anyone else to finish the opera, so Act III was never performed until after Helene died in 1976. It was finished by a man called Friedrich Cerha and performed in 1977, although a court action had tried to stop it from being performed.

<TITLE>Athanasian Creed</TITLE>
The Athanasian Creed is a Christian statement of faith. It is also often referred to as Quicumque vult . It is the first known creed to talk about trinity. It has been in use since the 6th century, mainly in the western part of the Church. It is not used very much today, the Nicene Creed has largely replaced it.

From about the 9th century people thought that St. Athanasius had written it. Athanasus lived in the 4th century in Egypt. Today, this view is largely seen as false. This is because of the following:

Today, most people think it came from Gaul around the year 500. Its positions are similar to those taken by St. Ambrose of Milan, Augustine of Hippo or Vincent of Lérins. J.N.D. Kelly, a contemporary patristics scholar, believes that St. Vincent of Lérins was not its author, but suggests that it may have come from the same bacground, namely the area of Lerins in southern Gaul. Caesarius of Arles is one of the possible authors. 

The oldest surviving manuscripts of the Athanasian creed date from the late 8th century.

Martin Luther said there were three statements of faith, the Nicene Creed , the Te Deum , and the Athanasian Creed. 

It explains Trinity, in such a way to stand against positions such as Arianism. It has the filioque.

<TITLE>Alicante</TITLE>
Alacant or Alicante is a city in Spain. It is the capital of the province of Alicante and of the comarca of the Alacantí: It is in the southern part of the Valencian Community. It is also a historic Mediterranean port. The population of the city of Alicante proper was 334,757 inhabitants, estimated , ranking as the second-largest Valencian city. Including nearby municipalities, Alicante conurbation was populated by 458,843 residents. Population of the metropolitan area was 795,034 estimates. Based on population it is the eighth-largest metropolitan area of Spain.

The city is a sea port and a tourist centre. 

<TITLE>Anthem</TITLE>
An anthem is a piece of music written for a choir to sing at an Anglican church service. The difference between an anthem and a motet is that an anthem is sung in English. Also most anthems are accompanied by an organ.

The word “anthem” has come to mean “a song of celebration”. This is why we also talk about National Anthems.

Anthems for the church have been composed ever since King Henry VIII argued with the Pope and did not want to be Roman Catholic any more. He founded the English Anglican church. Church composers were told to write music in English. The words usually come from the Bible. We know that as early as 1502 the composer Fayrfax was paid 20 shillings for composing an anthem. After the Reformation many anthems were composed. At first they were like motets, but in English. Soon the English anthem developed differently from the continental motet. Two kinds of anthem developed: the “Full Anthem” in which the whole anthem was sung by the full choir, and the “Verse Anthem” which was usually longer and had several verses which would be sung by soloists, with choruses for the full choir in between.

Almost every music director of cathedrals or large churches has written anthems. A few of the most famous composers of anthems are:

Thomas Tallis William Byrd Orlando Gibbons Henry Purcell George Frideric Handel William Boyce Samuel Sebastian Wesley Edward Bairstow William H.Harris Herbert Howells William Mathias John Tavener John Rutter 

<TITLE>Acceleration</TITLE>
Acceleration is a measure of how fast velocity changes. Acceleration is the change of velocity divided by the change of time. Acceleration is a vector, and therefore includes both a size and a direction. 

Acceleration is the rate of change of the velocity of an object. Acceleration can be found by using:

Sometimes the change in velocity is written as Δ. Sometimes the change in time is written as Δt.

In difficult situations, the acceleration can be calculated using mathematics: in calculus, acceleration is the derivative of the velocity , .

 Acceleration has its own units of measurement. For example, if velocity is measured in meters per second, and if time is measured in seconds, then acceleration is measured in meters per second squared . 

 Acceleration can be positive or negative. When the acceleration is negative , it is sometimes called deceleration. For example, when a car brakes it decelerates. Physicists usually only use the word "acceleration". 

 There are rules for how things move. These rules are called "laws of motion". Isaac Newton is the scientist who first wrote down the main laws of motion. According to Newton's Second Law of Motion, the force something needs to accelerate an object depends on the object's mass . The formula of Newton's Second Law of Motion is , where is the acceleration, is the force, and the mass. This formula is very well-known, and it is very important in physics. Newton's Second Law of Motion, in short "Newton's Second Law", is often one of the first things that physics students learn.

<TITLE>Anton Chekhov</TITLE>
Anton Pavlovich Chekhov was a Russian writer who wrote short stories and plays.

 Anton Chekhov was born in Taganrog, which is a city in Russia. His father, Pavel, was the owner of a grocery store. His mother, Yevgeniya, sometimes told Anton stories about her childhood.

In 1876, Chekhov's father went bankrupt. From then on, Chekhov's family was very poor. Anton Chekhov had to pay for his own education. He paid for it by tutoring other students, catching birds and selling them, and writing short stories for newspapers. When he had extra money, he sent it to his family. While he was at school, he read many books by famous authors, for example Miguel de Cervantes and Arthur Schopenhauer.

In 1879, Chekhov went to Moscow University.

While he was at Moscow University, Chekhov wrote many short stories to pay for his schooling and to help his family. In 1886, one of the most famous newspapers in Russia, New Times, asked him to write stories for them. Soon, his stories started to get famous, and other writers read his work and liked it. He wrote a book of stories called At Dusk that won the Pushkin Prize, an award for good writing.

In 1887, Chekhov wrote a play called Ivanov. Chekhov did not like the play, but critics loved it.

In 1890, Chekhov went to Sakhalin Island, a penal colony . He talked to many prisoners and found out that they were treated very badly. The prisoners were often beaten. There were also children there. He was angry, and wrote about it in a book called The Island Of Salakhin and in a short story called The Murder.

In 1892, he bought a house and some land near Moscow called Melikhovo. While he was there, he helped the people who lived nearby. He brought them food and clothing, and medicine when they were sick. Since he was trained as a doctor, he knew how to take care of them.

While at Melikhovo, he started to write a play called The Seagull. When it was first performed, it went very badly, and the audience did not like it. Later, it was performed at another theater, the Moscow Art Theater, where the performances went better. Soon after this, he had another play performed, called Uncle Vanya. He later wrote two more great plays: Three Sisters and The Cherry Orchard. All four plays are still often performed today.

In 1897, he became sick. Doctors told him that he had tuberculosis, a lung disease, and that he should change his life to be healthier. He moved to Yalta and bought a house there. Later, he married a woman named Olga Knipper. At Yalta, he wrote some of his most famous stories, including a story called The Lady With The Dog.

By 1904, Chekhov was very sick. He died on the 2nd of July in Germany. Thousands of people were very sad when he died. He was buried in Novodevichy Cemetery.

Chekhov influenced many important writers, including George Bernard Shaw, James Joyce, and Virginia Woolf. His short stories are still read by many people around the world.

<TITLE>Apoptosis</TITLE>
Apoptosis is the controlled death of a cell. Apoptosis is used to get rid of cells that are not needed anymore by the body. This is especially important in normal growth. Apoptosis is designed into the cell's DNA and allows the cell to die without causing inflammation. The cell releases enzymes that destroy the cell from the inside. After the cell is dead, the left over parts are then removed by other special cells called phagocytes.

 Cells can die in two ways, by damage or by programmed cell death . When a cell dies by apoptosis, other cells do not react . When a cell dies because of damage, the cell's contents are left over and affect nearby cells. 

 Apoptosis is the normal end of a cell's life. At any point in time there may be too many cells in one area and the DNA coding for apoptosis will activate in some of those cells and they will die safely. This is important to the overall functioning of the organism. If, for example, the making of liver cells were to speed up and they never died, the liver would no longer function properly. The liver cells would eventually take over the organism's body.

 Cancerous cells do not undergo apoptosis and that is why they are such a problem. They continuously multiply until the host organ or the organism's body cannot function anymore. This occurs because the apoptosis coding has mutated and so has other coding. This causes rapid mitotic division of the unwanted cells. This is a cancerous growth. 

<TITLE>Anal sex</TITLE>
Anal sex is a sex act with the anus. This could be putting a finger, dildo, penis, or another object in it.

Types of anal sex can be: oral stimulation of the anus, using fingers for stimulation and using different objects for stimulation. First of all, the anus is a part of the body that is tight and cannot lubricate itself. This is why a person should be careful when inserting something without damaging the walls of this organ. Secondly, the function of the anus is to cast out feces.

For a man, pleasure comes from the stimulation of prostate that is found near the anus. Both men and women can get pleasure because the anus has lots of nerve endings.

<TITLE>Aarau</TITLE>
Aarau is the capital of the northern Swiss canton of Aargau. The city is also the capital of the district of Aarau. Most of the people in the municipality speak German. To the west of Aarau is the canton of Solothurn. It is the third-largest city in Aargau after Wettingen and Baden. 

The old city of Aarau lies on a rocky cliff where the Aar river valley narrows at the southern foot of the Jura mountains. Newer parts of the city can be found farther south of the river valley. The neighboring municipalities are Küttigen to the north, Rohr and Buchs to the east, Suhr to the south-east, Unterentfelden to the south, and Eppenberg-Wöschnau and Erlinsbach to the west. Aarau and the other municipalities have merged together over the years. The only exceptions are Unterentfelden and Eppenberg-Wöschnau to the south, whose places are divided from Aarau by the large forests of Gönhard and Zelgli.

A few artifacts from the Neolithic period were found in Aarau. Near the location of the present train station, the ruins of a settlement from the Bronze Age have been excavated. The Roman road between Salodurum and Vindonissa passed through the area, along the route now covered by the Bahnhofstrasse. In 1976 divers in the Aar found part of a seven-meter wide wooden bridge from the late Roman times. Aarau was founded around 1240 A.D. by the counts of Kyburg. The first certain reference to the city dates to 1256. The town was ruled from the "Rore" tower, which has been incorporated into the modern city hall.

In 1273 the counts of Kyburg died out. Agnes of Kyburg, who had no male relations, sold the family's lands to King Rudolf I von Habsburg. He granted Aarau its city rights in 1283. In the 14th Century the city was expanded in two stages, and a second defesive wall was constructed. A deep ditch separated the city from its "suburb;" its location is today marked by a wide street named "Graben" .

In 1415 Bern invaded lower Aargau with the help of Solothurn. Aarau capitulated after a short resistance, and was forced to swear allegiance to the new rulers. In the 16th Century, the rights of the lower classes were abolished. In March 1528 the citizens of Aarau allowed the introduction of Protestantism at the urging of the Bernese. A growth in population during the 16th Century led to taller buildings and more dense construction methods. Early forms of industry developed at this time; however, unlike in other cities, no guilds were formed in Aarau.

Starting in the early 18th century, the textile industry was established in Aarau. German immigration contributed to the city's favorable conditions, in that they introduced the cotton and silk factories. These highly educated immigrants were also responsible for education reform and the enlightened, revolutionary spirit that developed in Aarau. On December 27, 1797, the last Tagsatzung of the Old Swiss Confederacy was held in Aarau. Two weeks later a French envoy continued to foment the revolutionary opinions of the city. The contrast between a high level of education and a low level of political rights was particarly great in Aarau, and the city refused to send troops to defend the Bernese border. By Mid-March 1798 Aarau was occupied by French troops.

On March 22, 1798 Aarau was declared the capital of the Helvetic Republic. It is therefore the first capital of a unified Switzerland. Parliament met in the city hall. On September 20, the capital was moved to Lucerne. In 1803, Napoleon ordered the fusion of the cantons of Aargau, Baden and Fricktal. Aarau was declared the capital of the new, enlarged canton of Aargau. In 1820 the city wall was torn down, with exception of the individual towers and gates, and the defensive ditches were filled in.

The wooden bridge, dating from the Middle Ages, across the Aar was destroyed by floods three times in thirty years, and was replaced with a steel suspension bridge in 1851. This was replaced by a concrete bridge in 1952. The city connected to the Swiss Central Railroad in 1856.

The textile industry in Aarau broke down in about 1850 because of the protectionist tariff policies of neighboring states. Other industries had developed by that time to replace it, including the production of mathematical instruments, shoes and cement. Beginning in 1900, numerous electrical enterprises developed. By the 1960s, more citizens worked in service industries or for the canton-level government than in manufacturing. During the 1980s many of the industries left Aarau completely.

In 1802 the Canton School was established; it was the first non-parochial high school in Switzerland. It developed a good reputation, and was home to Nobel Prize winners Albert Einstein, Paul Karrer, and Werner Arber, as well as several Swiss politicians and authors.

The purchase of a manuscript collection in 1803 laid the foundation for what would become the Cantonal Library, which contains a Bible annotated by Huldrych Zwingli. More newspapers developed in the city, maintaining the revolutionary atmosphere of Aarau. Beginning in 1820, Aarau has been a refuge for political refugees.

The urban educational and cultural opportunities of Aarau have been extended through numerous new institutions. A Theater and Concert Hall was constructed in 1883, which was renovated and expanded in 1995-96. The Aargau Nature Museum opened in 1922. A former cloth warehouse was transformed into a small theater in 1974, and the alternative culture center KIFF was established in a former animal fodder factory.

 The earliest use of the place name was in 1248 , and probably referred to the settlement in the area before the founding of the city. It comes, along with the name of the River Aar , from the German Au, meaning floodplain.

The historic old city forms an irregular square, consisting of four parts . To the south lies the "suburb", that is, the part of the town formerly outside the city wall. One special characteristic of the city is its painted gables, for which Aarau is sometimes called the "City of beautiful Gables".

The buildings in the old city originate, on the whole, from building projects during the 16th century, when nearly all the Middle Age period buildings were replaced or expanded. The architectural development of the city ended in the 18th century, when the city began to expand beyond its wall. Most of the buildings in the "suburb" date from this time.

The "Schlössli" , Rore Tower and the upper gate tower have remained nearly unchanged since the 13th century. The "Schlössli" is the oldest building in the city. It was already founded at the time of the establishment of the city shortly after 1200; the exact date is not known. City hall was built around Rore Tower in 1515.

The upper gate tower stands beside the southern gate in the city wall, along the road to Lucerne and Bern. The jail has been housed in it since the Middle Ages. A Carillon was erected in the tower in the middle of the 20th century, the bells for which were provided by the centuries-old bell manufacturers of Aarau.

The town church was built between 1471 and 1478. During the Reformation, in 1528, its twelve altars and accompanying pictures were destroyed. The "Justice fountain" was built in 1634, and is made of french limestone; it includes a statue of Lady Justice made of sandstone, hence the name. It was originally in the street in front of city hall, but was moved to its present location in front of the town church in 1905 due to increased traffic.

 The people that give the most jobs in Aarau is the canton government; most of their offices can be found throughout the city. 

One of the two head offices of the Aargauer Zeitung, Switzerland's fifth largest newspaper, can be found in Aarau.

Kern & Co., founded in 1819, was an internationally known geodetic instrument manufacturer based in Aarau. However, it was taken over by Wild Leitz in 1988, and was closed in 1991.

More than half of the workers in Aarau live in the city's suburbs, or on the outskirts of the city. Aarau gets some jams of cars and buses sometimes during rush hour .

Things made in Aarau are: bells, mathematical instruments, electrical goods, cotton textiles, chemicals, shoes, and other products.

<TITLE>Aargau</TITLE>
 is one of the more northerly cantons of Switzerland. It is located around the lower course of the river Aare, which is why the canton is called Aargau . The cantons of Basel Landschaft, Solothurn and Bern lie to the west. Lucerne is to the south Zug and Zürich are to the east. To the north is Germany. About 580.000 people live in the canton. Its capital is Aarau.

<TITLE>Arc de Triomphe</TITLE>
The Arc de Triomphe, in the end of the Champs-Elysées, is a very famous monument in Paris.

It was commissioned in 1806 after the victory at Austerlitz by Emperor Napoléon Bonaparte. It is a large arc, and even though it may be thought by some people that you can drive underneath it, you cannot. It was designed by Jean-Francois Chalgrin and has roughly 300 steps!

<TITLE>Aurochs</TITLE>
 The Aurochs, or urus, was a large species of cattle, once common in Europe but now extinct. It was a wild animal, not a domesticated animal. The extinct aurochs/urus is a completely separate species from the wisent .

According to the Paleontologisk Museum, University of Oslo, aurochs developed in India some two million years ago, came into the Middle East and farther into Asia, and reached Europe about 250,000 years ago. They were once thought a different species from modern European cattle , but today not any more. 

Modern cattle have become much smaller than their wild ancestors: the height of a large domesticated cow is about 1.5 meters , while aurochs were about 1.75 meters . 

Aurochs also had several features not often seen in modern cattle, such as lyre-shaped horns set at a forward angle, a pale stripe down the spine, and different color according to the gender. Males were black with a pale stripe down the spine, while females and calves were reddish . Aurochs were also known to have very aggressive behaviour, and killing one was seen as an act of courage in ancient cultures.

 At one time there were three aurochs subspecies, namely Bos primigenius namadicus that occurred in India, the Bos primigenius mauretanicus from North Africa and the Bos primigenius primigenius from Europe and the Middle East. Only the European subspecies survived until recent times.

<TITLE>Asynchronous Transfer Mode</TITLE>
Asynchronous Transfer Mode is a set of protocols used for computer networks. It is mostly used for Wide Area Networks. It splits the data, and encodes it into packets of a fixed size. Each packet can be routed differently, along virtual paths set up in the network. 

ATM has been very successful in WANs,as well as in LANs. Today, many ADSL implermentations use ATM technology.

Standards like Ethernet usually are quite simple. When there is little traffic on the network they work well. However, when there is a lot of traffic it is difficult to predict how an Ethernet network will behave. For this reason, Ethernet cannot give any service guarantees. It is not possible to say that an Ethernet packet will take a maximum delay, but after that time it is guaranteed to arrive.

ATM is more complex, but this complexity allows to give guarantees as to data rate, maximum delay, and jitter. These are usually called Quality of Service. 

<TITLE>Anus</TITLE>
The anus is the hole in the human body that is between the buttocks. It is at the end of the gastrointestinal system , where waste comes out of the body. 

<TITLE>Artillery</TITLE>
Artillery is a word for big guns used in an army, for example cannons and howitzers.

Such guns are used to shoot targets far away. Artillery is often used to deny area to enemy troops, to bombard trenches and buildings with enemies in it and to support units.

There are many different weapons that are called artillery. They may shoot shells or missiles. Newer systems can even drop mines over a big area, making the area uncrossable. There is also artillery that fights planes and other aircraft.

In most cases, artillery needs other units to see for it, because it often shoots in high angles and over terrain. They do not have to see the enemy to damage them.

<TITLE>Aswan</TITLE>
Aswan is a city in the south of Egypt and the capital of the Aswan Governorate. It is on the east bank of the Nile and is a busy market and tourist center.

Aswan is one of the driest places in the world where people actually live; as of early 2001, the last rain there was 6 years earlier. As of October 13, 2007, the last rainfall was a thunderstorm on May 13, 2006. In Nubian settlements, the people often do not put a roof over all of the rooms in their houses.

<TITLE>Agostino Carracci</TITLE>
Agostino Carracci was an Italian painter and printmaker. His brother Annibale and cousin of Lodovico Carracci were more famous than he was. 

He thought nature was an ideal. He founded a school that was competing with that of Caravaggio. Together with his brothers, he founded the Accademia degli Incamminati. The academia helped painters of the School of Bologna to become famous.

<TITLE>Agent Orange</TITLE>
Agent Orange is a very powerful herbicide that was used in the Vietnam War. It is a defoliant that destroyed forests. It was used by the United States military so their enemies had no place to hide.

 The problem with Agent Orange is that when it is released, some dioxins are also generated. Dioxins can cause cancer. They can also lead to genetic modifications. 

<TITLE>Ab urbe condita</TITLE>
Ab urbe condita is a way to measure time. 

 The phrase is Latin. It literally means from when the city was founded. The city talked about is the city of Rome. This way of measuring time was not used in Classical antiquity. The first to have used it was the historian Orosius, about 400 AD.

 Marcus Terentius Varro found out that the city of Rome was founded 440 years after the fall of Troja. Romulus and Remus founded it. Varro thought that was in the spring of 753 BC. 

Marcus Porcius Cato Censorius thought that Rome was founded one year after the 7th Olympic Games. That would have been in 752 BC.

 Ab urbe condita is also the main work of Titus Livius, a Roman historian.

<TITLE>Arthur Phillip</TITLE>
Admiral Arthur Phillip RN was a British naval officer. Phillip was made Governor of New South Wales, the first European colony in Australia, and was the founder of the site which is now the city of Sydney.

 Arthur Phillip was born in Fulham, London, in 1738. His father was a German-born language teacher, Jacob Phillip. His mother, Elizabeth Breach, was English, and the widow of a navy captain. Phillip went to a school for poor boys at the Greenwich Hospital. At the age of 13 he joined the merchant navy. Phillip joined the Royal Navy at 15. He saw action during the Seven Years' War in the Mediterranean at the Battle of Minorca in 1756. In 1762 he was promoted to Lieutenant. When the war ended in 1763 he was put on half pay. He married and became a farmer in Lyndhurst, Hampshire. He separated from his wife about 6 years later.

In 1774 Phillip joined the Portuguese Navy as a captain. He served in the Spanish-Portuguese War, 1776–1777. Phillip took a group of convict ships from Portugal to Brazil. This trip was a success because not many people died. This may have been the reason Phillip was asked to lead the expedition to Sydney. In 1778 England was at war again, and Phillip was recalled to active service. In 1779 he was given his first command, the ship Basilisk. He was promoted to captain in 1781, and given command of the Ariadne. In 1782 he was captain of the Europe with his friend Philip Gidley King as his lieutenant. They sailed to India. In 1784 he was back on half pay in England. He spent time in southern France and in 1786 was doing survey work for the Royal Navy.

 In October 1786, Phillip was made the new Governor of New South Wales. The British government wanted to start a penal colony on the east coast of Australia. Phillip knew about farming, and had taken prisoners to Brazil for the Portuguese. This made him a good choice to be leader. Phillip had a very hard time getting the ships ready for the eight month sea voyage to Australia. He had to take everything that the new colony might need. Phillip had no real idea of what he might find when he got there. There wasn't much money to buy things. He wanted people who knew about farming, building and making things, but this was rejected. Most of the 772 convicts were thieves from the city area of London. Phillip also took a group of marines and small group of officers who were to help him run the new colony.

The First Fleet, of 11 ships, sailed on 13 May 1787. The first ship, HMS Supply, reached Botany Bay on 18 January 1788. Phillip soon decided that this site, picked by Sir Joseph Banks, was not suitable. It had poor soil, no safe place to leave the ships, and no drinking water. Phillip decided to go north to Port Jackson. On 26 January 1788 this day is now called Australia Day the marines and convicts landed at Sydney Cove. It was a successful trip, as only 40 convicts had died. Phillip named Sydney after Lord Sydney.

The first years of the settlement were very hard. They only had the supplies they brought with them. They had to start growing their own food, but the soil around Sydney was poor. They didn't know about the climate, how much rain or when it would fall for example. Very few of the convicts knew anything about farming or growing food. They did not have enough farming tools. The convicts did not want to be farm workers. The colony was in danger of starvation for long time. The soldiers, who didn't like being given orders in many cases, did not think it was their job to make the convicts work. Phillip had to put some convicts in charge to get the other convicts working. This was the start of the process of making some convicts free which led to the reforms of Lachlan Macquarie after 1811. As Governor of the new settlement, Phillip had complete power over the eastern half of Australia.

Phillip had respect from the Aboriginal people because he was missing a front tooth. This tooth was the same tooth that they knocked out as part of their initiation ceremonies.

Phillip soon had problems with the soldiers in the penal colony. Life in Sydney was difficult, without proper houses and not enough food. The officer in charge of the soldiers, Major Robert Ross, wanted to give up the settlement and go back to England. Ross complained about Phillip and wrote letters to the government in England about him. The soldiers thought they should be given land and other benefits. They thought they should be given more food than the convicts, but Phillip believed everyone should have an equal share. Ross and the soldiers believed that they were in Australia to protect the settlement from being attacked by other countries. They did not think that their work included guarding the convicts. Ross who was a soldier, did not htink he should have to take orders from Phillip, who was a navy man. In March 1790, Phillip finally sent Ross to be in charge of the colony on Norfolk Island. The British government continued to send out convicts, there were over 4000 in Sydney by 1792. Food still needed to be brought in as the colony could not yet grow enough. Phillip began giving small grants of land to ex-convicts to start farms around Parramatta, New South Wales.

 On 11 December 1792 Phillip left to go back to England. He needed medical treatment for a pain in his side. The pain was kidney pain from eating so much salted food. He planned to return to Australia, but on medical advice he resigned as Governor and stayed in England. He married Isabella Whitehead in 1794. He eventually got better and in 1796 returned to the navy as a captain. He was in charge of the Alexander, and later the 74 gun battleship, Swiftshore. In January 1799 he was made a Rear Admiral of the Blue, and put in charge of the Sea Fencibles. Their job was to defend England against Napoleon. He retired from active service in 1805. He had a number of strokes which left him partly paralysed. He died at Bath, on 31 August 1814, after falling from a third floor window. He was buried at the church of St.Nicholas, Bathampton.

In 2007 Geoffrey Robertson QC found that Phillip's remains are no longer in the church. It is not known where they are. It is believed they were lost while the church was being repaired in the 1970's. Robertson believes that it is a insult to Phillip that he wasn't buried in one of England's cathedrals. He wants the remains of Phillip found and brought back to Australia.

<TITLE>Angus</TITLE>
Angus is a county on the North Sea and on the northern shore of the Firth of Tay in in the United Kingdom .

Angus is also the name of a council area.

The county town of Angus is Forfar, but its largest town is Dundee. Dundee is not part of the council area but is a council area on its own.

<TITLE>André the Giant</TITLE>
André René Roussimoff was a professional wrestler that wrestled for the WWF. He was a one time WWF Champion, one time WWF Tag Team Champion and the first inductee into the WWE Hall of Fame in 1993. He was 7'4 which earned him the nickname The Eighth Wonder of the World.

<TITLE>Adrastea (moon)</TITLE>
Adrastea or , is the second closest moon to Jupiter. It was found by David C. Jewitt and G. Edward Danielson in Voyager 2 probe photographs taken in 1979 and received the designation . In 1983, it was named after the mythological Adrastea, who was a daughter of Jupiter and Ananke. 

Adrastea was the first moon to be found from images taken by an interplanetary spacecraft, rather than through telescopic photography.

 Adrastea is non-spherical and measures 20x16x14 km³ across. What Adrastea is made of and the mass of Adrastea are not known, but assuming that its mean density is like that of Amalthea its mass can be estimated at ~2×1015 kg. Amalthea's density implies that that moon is composed of water ice with a porosity of 10-15%, and Adrastea may be similar.

No surface details of Adrastea are known, due to the low resolution of available images.

 Adrastea is the smallest and second closest member of the closer moons to Jupiter. It orbits Jupiter at ~129,000 km within the planet's Main Ring. The orbit has very small eccentricity ~0.0015 and inclination ~ 0.03° relative to the equator of Jupiter.

 Adrastea was found in Voyager 1 and 2 images, but appeared only as a dot. The Galileo spacecraft was able to see its shape, but the images remain poor.

<TITLE>Apache HTTP Server</TITLE>
Apache HTTP Server, also called Apache, is a web server notable for helping the growth of the World Wide Web.

<TITLE>Accountancy</TITLE>
Accountancy or accounting is the profession that deals with a company's money, books and records. Accountants are persons who perform the accounting work, and also carry out the auditing or checking of a company's books and records. In Britain, this auditing is often carried out by a chartered accountant. 

When accountants perform accounting work, they write in the books of account that belong to a company. Every time money is spent or earned, it is written in the ledger. The information found in the ledger is mostly used by lenders, managers, investors, tax authorities , and other decision makers. These people look at the ledger and make decisions about how to spend money in the future.

 The English word accountant comes from the word accomptant. Accomptant comes from the French word compter. The French word compter comes from the Latin word computare. Even though the letter 'p' is in both of these words, a person cannot hear it when speaking aloud. 

The English spelling for the word accountant comes from the sound of the word accomptant. Because the 'p' is silent, both of these words sound similar. The word accountancy comes from the word accountant.

 Accountancy is very old. It started when humans first started to farm and form towns and cities. People who thought about economics thought of a way to write down the sizes and values of crops. 

Simple accounting is found in the Christian Bible in the Book of Matthew, in the Parable of the Talents. Simple accounting is also found in the Islamic Quran.

In the twelfth-century A.D., the Arab writer, Ibn Taymiyyah, wrote a book called Hisba. This book has details about accounting systems that were used by Muslims before the mid-seventh century A.D. Muslim accounting was influenced by Romans and Persians. In his book, Ibn Taymiyyah gives details of a complex governmental accounting system. 

Luca Pacioli , also known as Friar Luca dal Borgo, is said to be the person who gave "birth" to accountancy. He wrote a textbook in Latin called Summa de arithmetica, geometrica, proportioni et proportionalita . This textbook was used in the abbaco schools that are found in northern Italy. Sons of merchants and craftsmen were taught in these schools. This textbook was written about math. It has the first printed description of how merchants from Venice kept their accounts. Merchants from Venice used a system called the double-entry bookkeeping system. 

Double-entry bookkeeping is where there is a debit and credit entry for every transaction. 

Pocioli wrote down this system but he did not invent it, but he is still called the "Father of Accounting". The system he wrote had most of the accounting cycle as it is known today. He wrote about using journals and ledgers, and warned that a person should not got to sleep at night until the debits were the same as the credits. His ledger had accounts for assets , liabilities , capital , income and expenses. He showed how to write year-end closing entries and suggested that a trial balance be used to prove that a ledger is balanced. His treatise in the book also has info about other topics, such as accounting ethics and cost accounting.

 The first book written in the English language on accounting was published in London, England by John Gouge in 1543.

In 1588 John Mellis from Southwark, England wrote a short book of instructions for keeping accounts.

There was another book written in 1635 that was described as The Merchants Mirrour, or directions for the perfect ordering and keeping of his accounts formed by way of Debitor and Creditor. This book was written by Richard Dafforne, who was an accountant. This book has many references to books about accountancy that were written much earlier. One chapter of this book is titled "Opinion of Book-keeping's Antiquity". In this chapter the author says that, according to another author, the bookkeeping he wrote about was used two-hundred years earlier in Venice.

Another writer from the Netherlands wrote that double-entry bookkeeping was done by the Greeks.

There were several editions of Richard Dafforne's book. The second edition was published in 1636. The third edition was published in 1656. Another edition was published in 1684. The book is very complete in how it describes scientific accountancy. It contains a lot of detail and explanation. The science that supports accountancy was liked by many people in the seventeenth century. This is supported by the fact that there were so many editions. Starting at this point in history, there have been many books written about accountancy. Many authors claim to be professional accountants and teachers of accountancy. Because of this, it shows that there were professional accountants who were employed in the seventeenth century.

A financial audit is where an internal audit and an external audit are done. For an external audit, an independent auditor takes a look at financial statements and accounting records. By looking at these records, the auditor can find out if these records are true, fair and follow Generally Accepted Accounting Principles , or International Financial Reporting Standards . Internal audit trys to get info for management usage, and is done by employees.

<TITLE>Ant</TITLE>
An ant is a small species of insect that lives in very large groups. Each group is called a "colony". One ant colony may have a few dozens of ants to thousands of ants. In large places, ant colonies may have millions of ants. 

A colony has a female ant, called a "queen", who lays eggs. Those eggs will hatch into worker ants. Larger colonies of ants having millions of ants mostly have female ants making groups of "workers", "soldiers", or other special groups. Almost all ant colonies also have some fertile male ants called "drones".

Ants have colonies almost everywhere on planet Earth. Places that do not have ants are Antarctica and certain far away places or islands hard to live at.

Ants are usually small, but can carry the weight of twenty ants. Usually, worker ants will carry food back to the colony so that the other ants and the queen can eat.

Many human cultures use ants in cuisine, medication and rituals.

<TITLE>Adware</TITLE>
Adware is an advertising computer program that can be installed by other people on someone's computer, sometimes without their permission. It is a controversial topic because sometimes business companies put the program there so they can see what people are doing or what web pages they are browsing. They then put an advertisement that is of the same subject as the web-page the person is looking at. This can be good if the person is trying to buy something, but many people do not want advertisement pop ups or banners. Many people also do not want other people to find out what they are doing or what web pages they are looking at. An example is in the popular peer to peer file sharing program, Kazaa. When someone downloads the official release, it installs adware on their computer that then sends advertisements to the computer. Some people do not like this so they use an illegally modified version of this program called Kazaa Lite.

 Removal tools have been developed to assist users in clearing out these unwanted programs. Like many programs that people use for security, the program must be updated often. Updating allows the removal tool to recognize new types of adware. This can be done by downloading files over the internet using the 'update' option in the program.

<TITLE>Ajaccio</TITLE>
Ajaccio , pronounced "ah-YAH-cho", is a town of France. It is the capital of the territorial collectivity of Corsica and the prefecture of the department of Corse-du-Sud.

 Ajaccio lies on the west coast of the island of Corsica in a sheltered position at the foot of wooded hills on the northern shore of the Gulf of Ajaccio. The harbour lies to the east of the town and is protected on the south by a peninsula.

<TITLE>Antacid</TITLE>
Antacids are used to help stop indigestion. You may get indigestion if you have eaten too much or if you have eaten too fast. If you have indigestion the liquid in your stomach will become more acidic. 

The reaction that is happening is called neutralisation. This is because the tablets are alkaline and the liquids in your stomach are acidic.

<TITLE>Amy Grant</TITLE>
Amy Lee Grant is an American singer. She is known for her Christian pop music. She released her first album in 1977 at the age of 16.

<TITLE>Aberdour</TITLE>
Aberdour is a town in Fife, Scotland. It is located between Dalgety Bay and Burntisland.

<TITLE>Aberfoyle, Stirling</TITLE>
Aberfoyle is a village in Scotland. It is located in the Stirling council area.

<TITLE>Anders Celsius</TITLE>
Anders Celsius was a Swedish astronomer. Celsius was born in Uppsala in Sweden. He developed the Celsius temperature scale as the international temperature standard when he worked on meteorology . One of his good friends Gabriel Fahrenheit invented the Fahrenheit scale for the thermometer. 

<TITLE>April 25</TITLE>
 is the 115th day of the year in the Gregorian Calendar . There are 250 days until the end of the year.

<TITLE>Andalusia</TITLE>
Andalusia or Andalucía, in southern Spain, is one of 17 regions of Spain called Autonomous communities of Spain. It is the first in population among the Autonomous communities and the second in area. With 7,975,672 people and eight provinces it is a well-known region in Europe. The capital is Seville, with 705,000 inhabitants and 1,350,000 in the metropolitan area. Another big city is Malaga, with 560,000 inhabitants and 1,075,000 in the metropolitan area. Other famous Andalusian cities are Cordoba, Granada, Almeria, Cadiz, Jaen, Huelva, Jerez, and Marbella. The most important river is the Guadalquivir and the highest mountain in Andalusia and in the Iberian Peninsula is the Mulhacen

The name Andalusia is the modern version of the name Al-Andalus which goes back to the Middle Ages. During that period, northern Iberian Peninsula was controlled by Christian kings and the southern Iberian Peninsula was controlled by Muslims. In 711 CE, the Muslims invaded the Iberian Peninsula, then controlled by Christians of Visigothic origin. By 719 the Muslims conquered all of the peninsula except for a small area in the northern Pyrenees Mountains. The Muslims used the name Al-Andalus for all of the territory of the Iberian Peninsula under their control. Christians in the north waged war for more than seven centuries against the Muslims, gradually taking over more and more of the southern areas. This process of war is called the reconquista, Spanish for reconquest. In the year 1492, King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain retook the last stronghold in the southern area at Granada. In that same year, the Muslims and Jews were forced to leave Spain.

The Andalusians are the inhabitants of Andalusia of the southern region in Iberia peninsula. They are generally considered an ethnically distinct peoples because of the two of the most important markers of distinctiveness: their own language and an awareness of a presumed common origin. Andalusian is said to be a distinct dialect of Spanish, although it is debatable, according to the nationalists. The Andalusians have a rich culture which includes the famous flamenco style of music and dance, even though it was adopted by the Spanish gypsies who have changed it and monopolized into their own culture. 

<TITLE>Azad Kashmir</TITLE>
The State of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, also called Azad Kashmir is part of the disputed region of Kashmir. It is under Pakistani administration, but is claimed by India as part of its state of Jammu and Kashmir. Together with Gilgit Baltistan it makes up Pakistan-administered Kashmir.  Gilgit Baltistan lies to the north, the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir is to the east. The North-West Frontier Province is west of it, and the Pakistani province of Punjab lies south of it.

The capital city of Azad Kashmir is Muzaffarabad. Azad Jammu and Kashmir has an area of 5,134 mi² . The inhabitants of this region are Kashmiri Muslims. About 4 million people live there.

Pakistan and the Kashmiris refer to Jammu and Kashmir as Indian Occupied Kashmir .

Azad Kashmir is a self-governing state under Pakistani control but is not constitutionally part of Pakistan. It has its own elected president, prime minister, legislature, high court, and official flag. However, the highest body in the state is the Azad Jammu and Kashmir Council which comprises six members from the government of Azad Kashmir and five members from the government of Pakistan, including the President of Pakistan who is the chairman/chief executive of the council.. Azad Kashmir is administratively divided into three divisions which, in turn, are divided into ten districts.

<TITLE>Arabian Sea</TITLE>
The Arabian Sea is a sea between Arabian Peninsula and the Indian peninsula. It covers around 4,600,000, km. The Arabian Sea one of the warmest seas. 

<TITLE>Aspartame</TITLE>
Aspartame is an artificial sweetener, that was discovered in 1965, by James M. Schlatter. It can be used to replace some kinds of sugar. It is not based on saccharides, like saccharin. 

<TITLE>Asexual reproduction</TITLE>
Asexual reproduction is reproduction without sex. It is a form of reproduction, where only one parent is needed to make an identical copy of itself. The main process of asexual reproduction is mitosis. This type of reproduction is common among some single-cell organisms, for example, an amoeba. Many plants also reproduce asexually. 

Some organisms like bacteria reproduce using binary fission. They split in two, so one bacterium becomes two bacteria. This always leads to daughter cells, and the offspring will always be identical to the parent.

Budding is similar to binary fission, but it is used by plants and some animals, which cannot simply split in half as bacteria can. It is when a small part of a plant or animal breaks off and then, while they are separated from their "mother", they start to grow until both the "parent" and the "offspring" are the same size and both are capable of budding again. This may happen many more times.

 Fungi produce spores, which may be asexual or sexual. The asexual spores have the genetic material inside, which allows them to make a whole new organism identical to its parent. 

Conidia are asexual, non-motile spores of a fungus; they are also called mitospores due to the way they are generated through the cellular process of mitosis. They are haploid cells genetically identical to the haploid parent, can develop into a new organism if conditions are favorable, and serve in dispersal.

Asexual reproduction in Ascomycetes is by the formation of conidia, which are bourne on specialized stalks called conidiophores. The morphology of these specialized conidiophores is often distinctive of a specific species and can therefore be used in identification of the species.

<TITLE>Alkene</TITLE>
Alkenes are a group of hydrocarbons. They have the general formula CnH2n. All alkenes have a carbon to carbon double bond. The double bond in the middle makes them more reactive because the molecule is not saturated. An alkene's unsaturation means that it will turn bromine colourless. The names of alkenes always end with -ene.

<TITLE>AbiWord</TITLE>
AbiWord is a free word processor that can be downloaded for free, it is open source and is much smaller in size than a proprietary alternative, Microsoft Word. It is available for FreeBSD, Linux, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, and QNX. Its mascot is Abi the ant. It is much smaller than many other commercial word-processors of its time, only using about 15Mb on a computer's hard drive under Microsoft Windows. It is easy to use.

<TITLE>Air conditioner</TITLE>
An air conditioner is a system, or machine that removes heat from an area using a cycle in which heat is moved out of the area where it is hot. 

In construction, a complete system of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning is referred to as HVAC. Its purpose, in the home or in the car, is to provide comfort during hot days and nights. 

The 19th century British scientist and inventor Michael Faraday discovered that compressing and liquefying ammonia could chill air when the liquefied ammonia was allowed to evaporate. 

In 1842, Philippines physician Dr. John Gorrie used compressor technology to create ice, which he used to cool air for his patients. He hoped eventually to use his ice-making machine to regulate the temperature of buildings. He even thought of centralized air conditioning that could cool entire cities. 

 Air conditioning engineers broadly divide air conditioning applications into comfort and process. 

Comfort applications aim to provide an indoor environment that remains relatively constant in a range preferred by humans despite changes in external weather conditions or in internal heat loads. 

Process applications aim to provide a suitable environment for a process being carried out, regardless of internal heat loads and external weather conditions. Although often in the comfort range, it is the needs of the process that determine conditions, not human preference. Process applications include:

In both comfort and process applications not only is the objective to control temperature but other factors including humidity, air movement and air quality.

In the refrigeration cycle, a heat pump transfers heat from a lower temperature heat source into a higher temperature heat sink. Heat would naturally flow in the opposite direction. This is the most common type of air conditioning. A refrigerator works in much the same way, as it pumps the heat out of the interior into the room in which it stands.

This cycle takes advantage of the universal gas law PV = nRT, where P is pressure, V is volume, R is the universal gas constant, T is temperature, and n is the number of moles of gas .

The most common refrigeration cycle uses an electric motor to drive a compressor. In an automobile the compressor is driven by a pulley on the engine's crankshaft, with both using electric motors for air circulation. Since evaporation occurs when heat is absorbed, and condensation occurs when heat is released, air conditioners are designed to use a compressor to cause pressure changes between two compartments, and actively pump a refrigerant around. A refrigerant is pumped into the cooled compartment , where the low pressure causes the refrigerant to evaporate into a vapor, taking heat with it. In the other compartment , the refrigerant vapour is compressed and forced through another heat exchange coil, condensing into a liquid, rejecting the heat previously absorbed from the cooled space.

Air conditioning has no greater influence on health than heatingthat is to say, very littlealthough poorly maintained air-conditioning systems can occasionally promote the growth and spread of microorganisms, such as Legionella pneumophila, the infectious agent responsible for Legionnaire's disease. Air conditioning can have a positive effect on sufferers of allergies and asthma.

In serious heat waves, air conditioning can save the lives of the elderly. Some local authorities even set up public cooling centers for the benefit of those without air conditioning at home.

<TITLE>Atari 2600</TITLE>
Atari 2600 is a video game console which was released in the United States in October 1977. The video game was sold over 30 million times. At that time nine games were available. The game that was most popular was Pac-Man which was sold 7 million times.

In the beginning the price of an Atari 2600 was $199 but the price dropped fast. 

In 1986, a more cheap version of the Atari 2600 became available: the JR. Atari. This one costed $50. The only difference were the looks.

<TITLE>Atari 5200</TITLE>
The Atari 5200 SuperSystem, or simply the Atari 5200, was a video game console which came out in 1982. It was made by Atari Inc. and was supposed to replace the popular Atari 2600. Atari wanted the 5200 to compete with the Intellivision, but it competed more closely with the ColecoVision. 

The 5200 was based on Atari Inc.'s 400/800 computers. Even though the internal hardware was almost identical, the software was not. Design mistakes meant that the 5200 had problems with its use. These problems made it a poor seller.

 The game's Atari 400-based design made for a design which Atari Inc. could quickly build and sell. 

While it was being designed, the Atari 5200 called the "Atari Video System X - Advanced Video Computer System." Atari protected the design with a codename, "Pam," after a female employee at Atari. A rumor said that "Pam" or "PAM" actually stood for "Personal Arcade Machine." This was because most games for the system were based on existing arcade games. Actual working Atari Video System X machines, whose hardware is 100% identical to the Atari 5200 do exist, but they are extremely rare. 

The first 1982 release had four controller ports, where nearly all other systems of the day had only two. The 5200 also featured a very special new controller with an analog joystick, numeric keypad, two fire buttons on both sides of the controller and game function keys for Start, Pause, and Reset. Another special thing was the first automatic TV switchbox. Older game systems which attached to a television's antenna leads required the user to slide a switch on the adapter by hand. This RF box was also where the game's power supply connected in a unique dual power/television signal setup similar to the RCA Studio II's. A single cable coming out of the 5200 plugged into the switch box and was used for both electricity and the television signal.

The 1983 version of the Atari 5200 has two controller ports instead of four. Atari changed back to the a simpler separate power supply and manual RF switch. It also had changes in the cartridge port to allow for the Atari 2600 adapter released that year. While the adapter was only made to work on the two-port version, modifications can be made to the four-port to make it compatible. In fact, towards the end of the four-port model's production run, there were a limited number of consoles produced which included these modifications. These consoles can be identified by an asterisk in their serial number.

 The prototypes used to design the controller's electrical systems used a so-called "yoke and gimbal" taken from a radio control system used to fly model airplanes. This simple design gave very nice control and was highly reliable. The actual controllers sold with the game were quite different and a great disappointment to the development teams. The design of the analog joystick, which used a weak rubber boot rather than springs to center the stick, proved to be hard to use and unreliable. Another major flaw of the controllers was that the design did not provide smooth control through the travel of the stick. This made controlling games awkward. The controllers did, however, include a pause button. This was a novelty at the time, but would become standard on almost all future game systems. Replacement joysticks were also released by other manufacturers.

Atari Inc. released the Pro-Line Trak-Ball controller for the system, which was used for titles such as Centipede or Defender. A paddle controller and an updated self-centering version of the original controller were also being worked on, but never made it to market.

The controller was ranked the 10th worst video game controller by IGN editor Craig Harris.

 Although the Atari 5200's insides were very much like that of the 400/800 home computers, the differences were enough so that games designed for one would not run directly on the other.

One of the most obvious differences was the 5200's lack of a keyboard. However, there were several others:

Atari Corp.'s later XE Games System revisited the idea of a console based on the 400/800 hardware. However, as this was essentially just a 65XE computer with a keyboard which could be removed, it was able to run most of the home computer titles directly.

The Atari 5200 could not run software for the still-popular Atari 2600. An adapter was later released in 1983 allowing it to play all Atari 2600 games, using the more reliable controllers from the 2600. 

Another problem was the lack of attention that Atari Inc. gave to the console; most of its attention went to the older Atari 2600. It faced an uphill battle competing with the ColecoVision's head start and a video game market which was beginning to fade.

At one point, Atari Inc. planned on developing a smaller, less expensive version of the Atari 5200 which would have gotten rid of the controller storage bin. Code-named the "Atari 5100" , only a few fully-working prototype Atari 5100s were made before the project was canceled.

On May 21, 1984, during a press conference at which the Atari 7800 was introduced, company executives revealed that the 5200 had been discontinued. Total sales of the 5200 were reportedly in excess of 1 million units.

Note: These descriptions are very technical. They are meant to be understood by people with lots of computer experience.

<TITLE>Atari Jaguar</TITLE>
The Atari Jaguar was a console releaced by Atari in 1993. It proved to be a commercial failure and was Atari's last console. It also had a CD based accessorry made for it called a Atari Jaguar CD.

<TITLE>Ahimsa</TITLE>
Ahimsa is a word used in Hinduism. The meaning of ahimsa is ‘non-injury”. The practice of ahimsa is now an important aspect of Hinduism, Jainism and Buddhism. A person who practices ahimsa generally eats vegetarian foods. A religious person who practices ahimsa does not take part in animal sacrifice.

In modern age, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi and Martin Luther King each followed a path of Ahimsa, though in different ways. They struggled without fighting, while asking for the rights of their followers.

<TITLE>Andrei Sakharov</TITLE>
Andrei Dmitrievich Sakharov , was a Soviet nuclear physicist. He was also a well-known dissident and human rights activist. Sakharov was an advocate of civil liberties and reforms in the Soviet Union.

Sakharov was a very clever scientist. He graduated from college during World War II but was kept out of the army to do scientific research for the government. Sakharov helped the Soviets develop the hydrogen bomb in the 1950s. But he also made many peaceful uses of nuclear power.

The bomb he had helped make started Sakharov to be a dissident. He argued with Khrushchev against nuclear tests that were not needed. He was afraid that these tests put people's lives and healths in danger without need. He began asking, too, for more freedom of speech. The government removed him from his secret work and as his special job as a scientist. Sakharov began to see what unhappy lives most Soviet citizens led.

Persecution only made him speak out more. He asked for more religious liberty and defended others who had spoken out and been put into jail. The secret police began to watch him and to make files of information against him. After Sakharov criticized activities of the USSR's Arab allies, Arab terrorists came to his apartment and held him, his wife, and his stepson hostage for an hour. "Do you want to kill us?" cried Sakharov's wife. "We can do worse things than kill you," they replied. After the terrorists left without doing anything, Sakharov tried to tell the police about it. The police did not really care.

The only thing that protected Sakharov was many people knew about him outside the Soviet Union. The Communists were afraid that if something happened to him, it would get a bad image of the USSR. But when Sakharov criticized the Soviet invade of Afghanistan in 1979, they became very angry and took him to the city of Gorky. There he was watched by the police outside his apartment. He tried to go on a hunger strike, not eating anything. The Soviet Union was afraid he might die, so they force-fed him .

Sakharov kept on asking for glasnost . In 1986, Mikhail Gorbachev, who agreed with Sakharov and thought there should be glasnost, let the dissident scientist return home. Sakharov continued to call for reform, and on December 12, 1989, he publicly demanded an end of Communism. Two days later he died. But two years later his demand became true as the Communist government ended.

<TITLE>Astrobiology</TITLE>
Astrobiology is the study of life in outer space. The field of astrobiology looks for conditions necessary for life, like liquid water, a good temperature, or the presence of oxygen.

Two possible places to find life in the solar system are Europa, a moon of Jupiter and Titan, a moon of Saturn. These places may have liquid water. However, they may be too cold to support life.

<TITLE>Air show</TITLE>
An air show is an event at which aviators display their flying skills and the capabilities of their aircraft to spectators in aerobatics. Air shows without aerobatic displays, having only aircraft displayed parked on the ground, are called "static air shows".

<TITLE>Anthropic principle</TITLE>
The anthropic principle is a principle that says that the universe is how it is because it must allow for the eventual creation of us, as observers. The anthropic principle was thought of in 1974, by the astronomer Brandon Carter.

There are two different kinds of anthropic principles: the weak anthropic principle, and the strong anthropic principle.

Weak anthropic principle: "We must be prepared to take into account the fact that our location in the universe is necessarily privileged to the extent of being compatible with our existence as observers."

Strong anthropic principle: "The Universe must be such as to admit the creations of observers within it at some stage." 

<TITLE>Akihabara</TITLE>
Akihabara is a district of Tokyo, famous for electrical items and anime.

<TITLE>Aragonese language</TITLE>
The Aragonese language is spoken in the north of Aragon. The Aragonese is similar to other near languages: Spanish language, Catalan and Occitan. Also there are a lot of words in Aragonese similar to Basque words. About 10,000 people speak Aragonese. Aragonese is a Romance language.

<TITLE>Aerodynamics</TITLE>
Aerodynamics means studying how air travels around something moving through it, and reducing how much drag is caused. Streamlining is one of the major fields in aerodynamics. Aerodynamics are used to reduce drag in vehicles. 

Aerodynamics comes from Aero , and Dynamic .

<TITLE>Antiderivative</TITLE>
Antidifferentiation is a part of mathematics. It is the opposite of differentiation. Antidifferentiation is integration with no limits . The answer to an antiderivative is an equation.

If you want to integrate a bracket like , we need to do it a different way. It is called the chain rule. It is like simple integration. It only works if the in the bracket has a power of 1 like or .

<TITLE>Antigonid dynasty</TITLE>
The Antigonid dynasty was a Macedonian dynasty. The kings were part of the family of Alexander the Great's general Antigonus I Monophthalmus . The dynasty ended when the Roman empire conquered the area after the Battle of Pydna in 168 BC. 

<TITLE>A Vindication of the Rights of Woman</TITLE>
A Vindication of the Rights of Woman: with Strictures on Political and Moral Subjects is a book written by Mary Wollstonecraft in 1792. Today, it is known as one of the first books about feminism. In the 18th century, some people thought that women should not get a formal education. Wollstonecraft wrote this work as a reply to them. She says that women should have an education that fits their position in society. She says women are very important to the nation, because it is women who usually educate their children. She says that an educated woman can also be companions to their husbands, rather than just uneducated wives. Wollstonecraft does not see women as ornaments to society, or property to be traded in marriage. She argues that they are human beings, and therefore deserve the same basic rights men have.

In 1791, Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord wrote a report to the French National Assembly. In this report, he argued, that women should only receive a very basic education. Wollstonecraft used this report to write her reply. She also led an attack on the sexual double standards the society of the day had. She also indicted men for encouraging women to indulge in lots of emotion. Wollstonecraft wrote the Rights of Woman quickly so that she could directly respond to ongoing events; she wanted to write a more thoughtful second volume, but died before doing so.

Wollstonecraft calls for equality between the sexes in particular areas of life, such as morality, but she does not write that men and women are equal in all things. This has made it difficult to classify Wollstonecraft as a modern feminist as they believe men and women are equal in all things. She could not use either the word or the concept of feminism, because they were only developed later. Today, many people believe that her work was not received well, but this may be wrong. People who believe this also believe that Wollstonecraft was as reviled during her lifetime as she became after the publication of William Godwin's Memoirs of the Author of A Vindication of the Rights of Woman . However, the Rights of Woman was actually well-received when it was first published in 1792. One biographer has called it "perhaps the most original book of century".

<TITLE>Afghan Hound</TITLE>
An afghan hound is a dog from Afghanistan. Other names for them are Kuchi Hound, Tāzī, Balkh Hound, Baluchi Hound, Barutzy Hound, Shalgar Hound, Kabul Hound, Galanday Hound, or sometimes, not rightly, African Hound. They have hair instead of fur. They have black to the beginning of the nose. Their hair is from the tip of his/her legs, to his/her toes.

<TITLE>Angular momentum</TITLE>
In physics, the angular momentum of an object rotating about some reference point is the measure of the extent to which the object will continue to rotate about that point when acted upon by an external torque.

In particular, if a point mass rotates about an axis, then the angular momentum with respect to a point on the axis is related to the mass of the object, the velocity and the distance of the mass to the axis.

Angular momentum is important in physics because it is a conserved quantity: a system's angular momentum stays constant unless an external torque acts on it. Torque is the rate at which angular momentum is transferred in or out of the system. When a rigid body rotates, its resistance to a change in its rotational motion is measured by its moment of inertia.

where, F is the force vector, and r is the vector from the axis of rotation to the point where the force is acting. 

Angular momentum is an important concept in both physics and engineering, with numerous applications. For example, the kinetic energy stored in a massive rotating object such as a flywheel is proportional to the square of the angular momentum.

Conservation of angular momentum also explains many phenomena in nature.

<TITLE>Atomic theory</TITLE>
In chemistry and physics an atomic theory explains what the basic structure of matter is like. It says that all of matter is made up of tiny parts called atoms, and attempts to explain what atoms are like. Atomic theory has changed over time, but one of the earliest known atomic theories was explained by the Greek philosopher Democritus. A lot of the ideas in the modern theory came from John Dalton, a British chemist and physicist. 

The theory applies to solids, liquids and gases, but it does not apply to plasmas or neutron stars, where temperature and density stop atoms from forming.

During the cosmological era, the Ancient Greek philosophers were trying to find an explanation about the origin of the Universe, and looking for the main element. Some of them pointed out it was the water, some others the air, and others the fire, as the element they thought it was the main one. Successively, in the atomicist era, inaugurated by Democritus in the IV century b.C. He proposed that when dividing the matter many times, it should reach a point when the particle could not be divided anymore, but that should preserve the original matter properties. He named that particle atom, that comes from Greek word ἄτομον, meaning without division. He proposed that the atoms were eternal, unchangeable and undestructables. Between an atom and another, there was just the nothing. He concluded that the matter properties that are perceivable to us could be explained by the properties and the conduct of the atoms, that can't be distinguished directly.

Democritus was right about the composition of the matter. In fact, elements like the oxygen , the nitrogen , the carbon , the hydrogen were constituted by atoms of just one type, being these the fundamental basis to the life and the explanation to the constitution of the Universe. By example, the Universe contains in its composition a mass of 99% of hydrogen and helium ; the crust has a mass of 74,3% of oxygen and silicon ; the atmosphere, a 99% of mass of nitrogen and oxygen; the human body, a 93% of mass of carbon and oxygen; and the sea water, 55% of chlorine and a 30,6% of sodium .

However, his theory was not valued at the time, and the scientific investigation started in late XIX century, remaining until that moment Aristotle's theory about the continuity of the matter, that meant it could subdivide infinitely tin pieces every time slower, therefore, to know the composition of the matter in a theme that was suspended for a long time.

Dalton postulations' defined the atom as the basic unit of an element that can interfere in a chemical combination. Many scientists started to investigate the atom after Dalton, that could determine how is constituted the matter.

In 1850, Sir William Crookes constructed a discharge tube, that is a glass tube with metallic electrodes in its extremities, connected to a power flow source. When creating a vacuum in the tube, it can be seen the light discharge, that goes from the cathode to the anode . Crookes named it the cathode rays emission.

After the cathodic rays experiments, Sir Joseph John Thomson established that the emitted ray was formed by negative charges, because they were attracted by the positive pole. Thomson knew that the atoms were electrically neutral, but he established that, for this to carry out, an atom should have the same quantity of negative and positive charges. The negative charges were named electrons .

According to the assumptions established about the atoms electroneutrality, Thomson proposed the first atomic model, that was described as a positively-charged sphere in which the electrons were inlaid . It is known as the plum pudding model.

In 1906, Robert Millikart determined that the electrons had a Coulomb charge of -1,6 * 10-19, something that allowed to calculate its mass, infinitely small, equal to 9,109 * 10-31 kg.

In the same time, the experimentations made by Eugene Goldstein in 1886 in the cathode discharge tubes allowed him to establish that the positive charges, that later Lord Ernest Rutherford named protons, had a mass of 1,6726 * 10-27 kg and a electrical charge of +1,6 * 10 -19 C.

In 1910, the New Zealander physician Ernest Rutherford suggested that the positive charges of the atom were found mostly in its center, in the kernel, and the electrons around it.

Rutherford established this conclusion when he used an alpha radiation face to bombard gold slim metallic sheets , surrounded by a zinc sulphide lampshade , that had the peculiarity to produce flashes with the crash of the alpha emissions. To do that, he mounted a system, to deduce the nuclear atomic model.

<TITLE>Aung San Suu Kyi</TITLE>
Aung San Suu Kyi ; born June 19, 1945 in Yangon, Burma, is a woman who tries to bring democracy to her country. She is the leader of the National League for Democracy in Burma and a famous prisoner. She never uses violence to make Burma democratic.

Suu Kyi won the Rafto Prize and the Sakharov Prize in 1990 and the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991. In 1992, she was awarded the Jawaharlal Nehru peace prize by India for her trying to be peaceful.

In the 1990 general election in Burma, Suu Kyi's political party won, so she should have become Prime Minister of Burma. The military did not let her party, the National League for Democracy join the government. They arrested her instead, and forced her to stay in her house and not have any visitors. They have done this many times, and she has been forced to stay in her house for 12 years.

She is sometimes called Daw Aung San Suu Kyi; Daw is not part of her name, but a title for older women. This name shows respect for her.

 Aung San Suu Kyi was the third child in her family. Her name "Aung San" comes from her father, who is also named Aung San; "Kyi" comes from her mother; and "Suu" comes from her grandmother.

Her father helped to make Burma independent from the United Kingdom in 1947. He was killed in the same year. She grew up with her mother, Khin Kyi, and two brothers, Aung San Lin and Aung San Oo in Yangon. Her favourite brother Aung San Lin drowned in a pool accident when Suu Kyi was eight. Her other brother lives in San Diego, California and is an American citizen.

Suu Kyi went to Catholic schools for much of her childhood in Burma. She learned English in school.

Khin Kyi became famous as a politician. She was became the Burmese ambassador to India in 1960. Aung San Suu Kyi went to college in India at the Lady Shri Ram College for Women in New Delhi.

She continued her education at St Hugh's College, Oxford, and learned about philosophy, politics, and economics. She also went to the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London in the 1980s.

She also worked for the government. In 1972, Aung San Suu Kyi married Michael Aris, a professor of Tibetan culture who lived in Bhutan. In 1973, she gave birth to her first son, Alexander, in London; and in 1977 she had her second son, Kim.

 Aung San Suu Kyi returned to Burma in 1988 to take care of her sick mother. That year, the long-time leader of the socialist ruling party, General Ne Win, stopped being a politician. Many Burmese people wanted a democracy after the military ruled the country for several years.

She admired Mohandas Gandhi's philosophy of non-violence. She was also inspired by Buddhism.. Aung San Suu Kyi tried to work for democracy and helped make the National League for Democracy on September 27, 1988.

She was offered freedom if she left the country, but she refused.

<TITLE>Advertising</TITLE>
Advertising means saying really good things about things you buy, services, companies and ideas, usually performed by an identified sponsor, and performed through a variety of media. Advertisers influence our identity by making commercials. Many people agree that they influence our identity and they have a huge impact on our life. They influence our identity by using things such as techniques, stereotypes and targeting our audience. Our personal identity is who we are and what things make us up such as occupation, beliefs, personality, self esteem, lifestyle, relation ships, friends, how we look and what we wear. Advertisers use techniques to grab people's attention. For example, to make a burger look tasty in advertising, it may be painted with brown food colouring, sprayed with waterproofing to prevent it from going soggy and sesame seeds may be superglued in place. Advertising will bring new customers and more sales for the business. It can be expensive but can help make a business make more money.

<TITLE>Andrzej Sapkowski</TITLE>
Andrzej Sapkowski is a well-known Polish fantasy writer. He is probably one of the most popular Polish writers today. His best known work is The Witcher Saga . Before starting his career in the late 1980s, he worked in foreign trade.

<TITLE>Ammeter</TITLE>
An ammeter is a measuring tool used to measure the flow of electric current in a circuit. The electric current is measured in amperes; for this reason, some people call the ammeters as ampmeters, by mistake. It can measure 'resistance' of a current, speed of a current and force of a current .

<TITLE>Antipsychotic</TITLE>
Antipsychotic drugs are used in the treatment of depression and mood swings. They are mostly used to treat Schizophrenia. 

 The main inventor of this drug was Andrew J. Smith whom at the time was 16 when he made it. He created this drug that has saved hundreds of people with schizophrenia.

<TITLE>Amorphous solid</TITLE>
An amorphous solid is a solid in which there is no long-range order of the positions of the atoms. . Most classes of solid materials can be found or prepared in an amorphous form. For instance, common window glass is an amorphous ceramic, many polymers are amorphous, and even foods such as cotton candy are amorphous solids.

Amorphous materials are often prepared by rapidly cooling molten material, such as glass. Example: Glass, candle wax, cotton candy 

<TITLE>A Wizard of Earthsea</TITLE>
A Wizard of Earthsea, written in 1968, is the first of a series of books that are written by Ursula K. Le Guin and set in the fantasy world called Earthsea. The series is about a wizard named Ged. This book won the 1979 Lewis Carroll Shelf Award.

A mini-series based on A Wizard of Earthsea and The Tombs of Atuan was created on the Sci Fi Channel. Le Guin has said that she was not happy with the mini-series.

<TITLE>Alex Lifeson</TITLE>
Alex Lifeson, OC is a Canadian musician. He is best known as the guitarist and co-founder for the Canadian rock band Rush. Lifeson has been a member of the band since 1968.

In Rush, Lifeson plays electric and acoustic guitars. He also plays other instruments including: mandola, mandolin and bouzouki.

Along with his music career, Lifeson is part owner of a Toronto restaurant called "The Orbit Room." He is also a licensed airplane pilot

<TITLE>Artemis</TITLE>
Artemis is a goddess in Greek mythology, and one of the Twelve Olympians. She is the daughter of Zeus and Leto and the twin sister of Apollo.

She is the goddess of hunting, wild animals and the wilderness. During the 5th century BC, Artemis became also known as the goddess of the moon, becoming one with the goddess Selene.

She is also known as the goddess who asked Zeus to remain chaste and unmarried.

 In Greek mythology, Artemis is the daughter of Zeus and Leto, and the twin sister of Apollo. Leto had to find a place where the to give birth to the two. This was because of a curse set by Hera, Zeus' wife, because she was angry with Zeus. For this, Zeus raised an island that had been floating underwater and had not yet been touched by the sun. The island was Dellos. Leto gave birth there, while grasping hold of a sacred palm-tree. Artemis was born first, and Apollo second.

<TITLE>Albinism</TITLE>
Albinism is a condition some people and animals are born with. This condition is caused by a lack of pigment in their hair, eyes, and skin. A person or animal with albinism is sometimes called an albino, but many people prefer to be called a "person with albinism".

People with albinism usually have white or light blonde hair and very fair skin. Their eyes are blue, or rarely pink-ish. People with albinism in reality do have some problems including bad vision and getting sunburn easily. All of these problems are because people with alibinism have little or no pigments in their eyes, skin and hair.

Vision problems in albinism include nystagmus , strabismus and refractory errors .

Albino animals are easily attacked by predators because they cannot hide themselves like the non-albino members of their species. 

 Albinism is a hereditary condition. It is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern; it means, both parents should carry the albinism gene to have a child with albinism.

<TITLE>Anabaptist</TITLE>
Anabaptist is a term to refer to certain Christian movements. The followers of these movements think that believers should be baptized; only someone who believes can be validly baptized; the baptism of infants has to be confirmed with what they call believers baptism. The best-known anabaptists today are the Mennonites, the Amish, and the Hutterites.

<TITLE>And did those feet in ancient time</TITLE>
"And did those feet in ancient time" is a short poem by William Blake. It comes in the introduction to a long poem called Milton: a Poem . Today it is best known as the hymn Jerusalem, sung to music written by C. Hubert H. Parry in 1916, more than a century after Blake had written the poem. 

There is a legend that the young Jesus went to England with his uncle, Joseph of Arimathea, to England and visited Glastonbury. The poem connects this legend to an idea in the Book of Revelation describing a Second Coming in which Jesus builds a new Jerusalem. Some Christians thought that a new Jerusalem would be like Heaven, somewhere of love and peace. The poem asks if Jesus visited England and if Heaven was created in England. Blake lived in the time of the early Industrial Revolution when there was a lot of poverty and misery. Many people think the “dark Satanic mills” were the factories where many people worked in horrible conditions. This contrasts with the country with its beauty and clean air: “England’s green and pleasant Land”. The second half of Blake's poem says people should try to establish "Jerusalem" once more.

Blake’s poem was not very well known during the 19th century, but in 1916 a collection of poems was published which included “Jerusalem”. Britain was fighting a terrible war , and so the people needed some strong, patriotic music to give them courage. Robert Bridges, the Poet Laureate asked Parry to put it to music at a Fight for Right campaign meeting in London's Queen's Hall. He wanted Parry to write a tune that the audience would be able to sing easily. At first Parry wanted verse one to be sung by a solo female voice, but the version sung nowadays is the arrangement for orchestra made in 1922 by Sir Edward Elgar. When King George V heard it for the first time he said that he preferred "Jerusalem" to "God Save the King", the National Anthem. 

England does not have an official anthem and so the British National Anthem "God Save the Queen" is used for national occasions, for example before English international football matches or at the Last Night of the Proms. The song is also the unofficial anthem of the British Women's Institute. It is often sung as a hymn in churches, although people in some churches think it is not a hymn. It is also sung in many schools. 

<TITLE>Ariel Sharon</TITLE>
Ariel Sharon a former Prime Minister of the state of Israel.

Ariel Sharon was in the Israel Army for many years. He fought in numerous battles, and in 1974 he left the army as General. After the army he decided to go to politics. In 1977, he became Minister of Agriculture. In 1981 he became the Minister of Defence.

In 1983, he was sent away from the government as Minister of Defence after he was found to be guilty for not preventing a massacre in Lebanon where many hundreds of civilians were killed by other civilians.

In 2001, he was elected for Prime Minister after the war between Israel and Palestine started.

In 2004, he surprised many people when he said that Israel will get out of the Gaza Strip, which is the place where many Palestine people live. 

In December 2005, Sharon was taken into hospital. On January 4, 2006, Sharon was again taken to the hospital. He had a big stroke . Rumours spread immediately of his death, though these were denied by his physicians. Ehud Olmert, another member of Sharon's newly formed Kadima party, was acting Prime Minister until elections were held in Israel, after which Olmert became Prime Minister of Israel.

<TITLE>Alcopop</TITLE>
Alcopops are alcoholic drinks. They are also known as Ready-to-drink , Flavored Alcoholic Beverage or Flavored Malt Beverage . They are usually available in bottles or cans. They contain about the same amount of alcohol as a beer. Usually, they are very sweet, so that the alcohol can not be tasted. 

There are two different kinds of this drinks. In Europe, they are usually spirits mixed with lemonade, like vodka with lemon juice , or rum with fruit juice . In the US, they tend to be beers, which taste very sweet.

Because they are very sweet, alcopops tend to be more popular among young people. Since the fact that they contain alcohol is usually not ovious from the taste, these drinks are considered to be dangerous for young people by many countries. These have either raised the taxes on the drinks, or they have outlawed the sale of these drinks to people under a certain age .

<TITLE>Alkali</TITLE>
In chemistry, an alkali is an aqueous solution with a pH of more than seven. The word 'Alkali' comes from the Arabic 'qali' meaning 'from the ashes' since ashes mixed with water were used as cleaning products, and feel soapy.

An alkali is where a base is dissolved in water. Often it is the salt of an Alkali metal An alkali is the opposite to an acid and can be neutralised by adding acid.

The higher the number is over 7 on the pH scale the stronger the alkali is.

 Someone can find out how strong or weak an alkali is by adding universal indicator to it. Some universal indicators can be poured into alkalis and some are soaked into paper, and the paper is touched to the alkali. 

For example, soap and toothpaste are minor-strength alkalis. Lye is a strong alkali. 

<TITLE>Alcoholism</TITLE>
Alcoholism is the medical condition of people who often drink too much alcohol. Some people who suffer from alcoholism feel that they have to drink alcohol, even when it causes health and social problems. Alcoholism means addiction to alcohol. People who suffer from it are called alcoholics.

The overuse of alcohol has different causes, and there are different forms of treatment available. Some of these treatments are:

<TITLE>Abelian group</TITLE>
An Abelian group is a group in Group Theory that is commutative. 

In other words, for a,b contained in group G, a*b=b*a for binary operation *.

<TITLE>Acts of Union 1707</TITLE>
The Acts of Union were a pair of Parliamentary Acts passed in 1706 and 1707 by, respectively, the Parliament of England and the Parliament of Scotland, to make effective the Treaty of Union which had been between the two countries. The Acts joined the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland which had been separate states before, with separate legislatures but with the same monarch into a single Kingdom of Great Britain.

The two countries had shared a monarch for about 100 years . The Acts took effect on 1 May 1707. 

<TITLE>Amputation</TITLE>
Amputation is the act of cutting off a part of the human body because of medical reasons.

<TITLE>Archaeopteryx</TITLE>
The Archaeopteryx is a prehistoric animal from the Late Jurassic. It is the link between reptiles and birds.

The first Archaeopteryx was found in 1860 near Solnhofen in Bavaria, Germany. Today, nine skeletons and one feather of Archaeopteryx have been found.

The Archaeopteryx looks like a bird with feathers, but it had a mouth with teeth, claws at the hands and a long tail like dinosaurs or reptiles. Today, it is known that some dinosaurs looked like birds and that some had feathers. When they are born, today's South American hoatzin have claws on their wings when they are young just like Archaeopteryx. It usually ate meat but it might have been an omnivore.

<TITLE>`Abdu'l-Bahá</TITLE>
`Abdu'l-Bahá was a Persian man who was born on May 23, 1844 and died on November 28, 1921. His father was Bahá'u'lláh who founded the religion known as the Bahá'í Faith. 

`Abdu'l-Bahá spent most of his adult life in prison or under arrest, because of his father's new religion. Bahá'u'lláh called him the "Expounder" of his word, meaning that only `Abdu'l-Bahá had the right to say what Bahá'u'lláh's writings mean. This was to prevent different people from splitting the religion up because they thought Bahá'u'lláh meant different things, the way many other religions have split up.

<TITLE>Anubis</TITLE>
Anubis is the Greek name for the ancient god in Egyptian mythology who looks like a man with the head of a jackal. Jackals are predators that look like dogs and live in Africa.

 People did not like jackals in ancient Egypt, because the animals messed up graves. The Egyptian people wanted to end this by deifying them. Deifying means, in this case, that they created a god that was a jackal as well. Therefore, the god of the dead Anubis looked like a dog or jackal. Anubis was the god of the dead because the jackals were often in graveyards at night. This made the people think that the jackals protected the dead people in the graves. The priests who mummified the dead kings were also dressed up as jackals. Now that the jackal had become a holy animal, dogs and jackals were kept as pets in the temples. After their death, they were mummified and placed in the temples. Anubis was the protector of the mummies against the challenges in the netherworld. After a while Anubis became solely the god of mummification because he invented mummification by using it to preserve Osiris. Because Osiris was the first mummy and the first to go to the netherworld, he became king of it. The Egyptian people believed that Anubis helped with the ceremony that was performed with people once they arrived in the netherworld. In this ceremony, the heart of the dead was weighed against the feather of truth to see if the deceased had been a good person in life. If they had been a bad person in life, then they would go to a place where there would be food floating above their heads, just out of reach. If they ever got close to reaching it, then demons would dig holes at their feet that they would fall into, so that they could never get their hands on the food.

 In later times, during the Ptolemaic period, as their functions were similar, Anubis came to be identified as the Greek god Hermes, becoming Hermanubis. The centre of this cult was in uten-ha/Sa-ka/ Cynopolis, a place whose Greek name simply means "city of dogs". In Book XI of "The Golden Ass" by Apuleius, we find evidence that the worship of this god was maintained in Rome at least up to the 2nd century. Indeed, Hermanubis also appears in the alchemical and hermetical literature of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance.

Although the Greeks and Romans typically scorned Egypt's animal-headed gods as bizarre and primitive , Anubis was sometimes associated with Sirius in heaven, and Cerberus in hell.

<TITLE>Autumn</TITLE>
Autumn is the season after summer and before winter. In the United States this season is also called fall. In the Northern Hemisphere, it begins with the autumnal equinox and ends with the winter solstice . In the Southern Hemisphere, it runs from the autumnal equinox to the winter solstice .

In many places, autumn is a time for harvesting most crops. Deciduous trees lose their leaves, usually after turning yellow, red, or brown. Evergreen trees keep their leaves all year round. Also, in many countries, autumn is the time a new school year starts. In the UK, the period of school between the start of September and the end of December is known as the 'Autumn Term'.

When it is autumn in the Northern Hemisphere, it is spring in the Southern Hemisphere. When it is autumn in the Southern Hemisphere, it is spring in the Northern Hemisphere. On the Equator, Autumn is very much like Spring, with little difference in temperature or in weather. Autumn is a time when most animals are looking for food so they can store up for winter, because they soon will be going into hibernation. The weather gets colder and more windy.

<TITLE>Alpha helix</TITLE>
An alpha helix is a twisted part of a protein. It is one of the two most common parts of the secondary structure, or shape, of a protein. The other is the beta sheet. An alpha helix is created by alternating groups of atoms. There is a carbonyl group, created by a carbon atom double bonded to an oxygen atom, and an amine group, created by a nitrogen atom bonded to a hydrogen atom. Each section containing one of each of these groups is called a residue, a general term for a small part of a molecule. Each amine group forms a hydrogen bond with the carbonyl group four residues earlier. A prion is a protein that causes disease by changing the shape of another protein. It does this by changing some of the alpha helices, which are more common in normal cells, to beta sheets, which are more common in prions. The alpa helix consits of 3.6 residues per turn. All hydrogen bonds face in the same direction.

<TITLE>Accrington</TITLE>
Accrington is a town in Lancashire, England. It is located in the North West. The town had a population of 35,203 in the 2001 census. Accrington is home to the Accrington Stanley Football Club.

<TITLE>Durrani Empire</TITLE>
The Durrani Empire was a large state founded in what is now Afghanistan and Pakistan and later included northeastern Iran and even parts of western India.

<TITLE>Alexandria</TITLE>
Alexandria is a large city in Egypt. It is the largest coastal city of Egypt. It is also the second largest city of Egypt. It is on the coast, next to the Mediterranean sea. Alexandria is located in the north of Egypt, only 225 km from Cairo.

Alexandria is named after its founder. Alexander the Great founded Alexandria in 331 BC. For a thousand years, Alexandria was the center of the Greek world and the capital of the Ptolemaic dynasty in Egypt. Scores of famous Greek scientists, such as Euclid of Alexandria lived there or studied there. It was home to the largest library in the ancient Western world, the Library of Alexandria. It was a very wealthy city in its heyday, and remained the prime way Egyptian grain went to Rome. Rome depended greatly on Egyptian grain. But after the Muslim conquest it lessened in importance. The Muslims conquered Egypt in 641 AD, but did not want to have their capital at Alexandria, because it was too far away from Arabia. So the Islam invaders made a new capital on the east side of the Nile, and called it Fustat. Alexandria nowadays is a 3.8 million people.it is the main harbor of Egypt.it has two airports and three big stadiums.Alexandria stadium ,harras el hadoud stadium and borg el-arab stadium in borg el-arab industrial city.

<TITLE>Alexandria, Indiana</TITLE>
Alexandria is a city in the state of Indiana, in the United States.

<TITLE>Akira Toriyama</TITLE>
Akira Toriyama is the creator of many popular anime and manga series, most notably the Dragon Ball franchise. It has many media adaptions, and is now one of the most popular series of all time.

<TITLE>Arithmetic</TITLE>
Arithmetic is what we call working with numbers. It is a part of mathematics. The four basic arithmetic operations are addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. 

Harder arithmetic includes working with signed numbers, fractions, and decimals, and taking powers and roots.

Most people learn arithmetic in grade school, but some people do not learn arithmetic and others forget the arithmetic they learned. Many jobs require a knowledge of arithmetic, and many employers complain that it is hard to find people who know enough arithmetic. A few of the many jobs that require arithmetic include carpenters, plumbers, auto mechanics, accountants, architects, doctors, and nurses. Arithmetic is needed in all areas of mathematics, science, and engineering. 

Calculators are used to do arithmetic, but if a person needs a calculator to do simple arithmetic, like 2 + 2 = 4, then they will be too slow trying to do arithmetic on the job, just as a person who needs to look up the spelling of a word like "cat" in the dictionary will be too slow to write on the job. A skilled worker has to have a very good knowledge of arithmetic and the English language in order to earn the right salary.

<TITLE>Adolphe Sax</TITLE>
Antoine-Joseph Sax was a Belgian inventor, best known for inventing the saxophone.

<TITLE>Axiology</TITLE>
Axiology is the field of study under the broad scope of philosophy that studies ethical and aesthetic values.

<TITLE>Alternative</TITLE>
In natural language and in cognitive decision-making, alternative is one of two things//actions which can be chosen. From a specific perspective//goal, alternatives are always equivalent.

In logic and mathematics, alternative is the element of logical disjunction. 

<TITLE>Alien and Sedition Acts</TITLE>
The Alien and Sedition Acts were acts signed by United States president John Adams during a naval conflict against France. 

It was made of four acts. 

The first three acts were about immigration. They made it required time for an immigrant to become a citizen and also allowed the president to send illegal immigrants back to their home country if their home country is at war with the United States or they are considered to be dangerous to the peace and safety of the United States. The fourth act made it illegal to publish bad things about the government.

The acts were very controversial . 

The acts made many people not like John Adams. For that reason, Thomas Jefferson and the Democratic-Republican Party were able to defeat John Adams and the Federalist Party.

<TITLE>Amplifier</TITLE>
The word amplifier usually refers to an electronic amplifier. Electronic amplifiers make a signal from a radio or electric musical instrument louder and stronger. 

 Electronic amplifiers make a signal from the radio or electric instrument louder and stronger by using transistors or vacuum tubes. Electronic amplifiers have to be connected to electrical current or a battery to work. Once the signal from the radio or electric instrument has been made louder and stronger, the signal needs to be connected to a loudspeaker so that people can hear it.

 In the 1940s and 1950s, electronic amplifiers used vacuum tubes. However, electronic amplifiers with vacuum tubes were heavy, and they produced a lot of heat. They also broke down a lot. 

Since the 1960s, most electronic amplifiers have been built with transistors. Transistors are lighter, less expensive, and more reliable.

<TITLE>Azores</TITLE>
The Azores are a group of nine islands located in the North Atlantic Ocean about 1,500 km from Lisbon, Portugal. The Azores are full of green land, and is surrounded by the ocean.The Azores belongs to Portugal. The largest island is called Sao Miguel, .

<TITLE>Outback</TITLE>
The name outback describes the remote areas of Australia. The outback is not a defined area, it is only a term used to refer to locations that are far away from big cities. The fertile parts are known as Rangelands and have been traditionally used for sheep or cattle farming. Agriculture, tourism and mining are the main economic activities in this vast and sparsely settled area.

 Over 90% of the Australian population lives in urban areas on the coast. There have been various attempts at creating settlements for Australian Aborigines to live traditionally, with more or less success.

 Because of the expanses and remoteness in the outback a unique service, The Flying Doctor, was created in 1928. The aim of the service is to provide medical care to people who can’t reach hospitals or other doctors. Consultations are carried out via radio or telephone and for serious situations, doctors are flown out to the patients.

 Organised travels with a guide to the outback is popular, although some Australian and international tourists travel in their own cars. Such a trip, especially off the few big roads in the outback, requires very good planning and a suitable vehicle . On remote routes considerable supplies and equipment are required. Some big trips can’t be undertaken safely without a convoy of several vehicles. Deaths of tourists are a regular occurrences because many people are not well-prepared for their outback trip.

<TITLE>Ansbach</TITLE>
Ansbach is a city in Middle Franconia, Germany.

<TITLE>Arno</TITLE>
The Arno is a river in the Tuscany region of Italy. It is the most important river of central Italy after the Tiber River. The river Arno is in the north of Italy.

<TITLE>Apostles' Creed</TITLE>
The Apostles' Creed , sometimes titled Symbol of the Apostles, is an early statement of Christian belief, a creed or "symbol." 

It is widely used by a number of Christian denominations for both liturgical and catechetical purposes, most visibly by liturgical Churches of Western tradition, including the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church, Lutheranism, the Anglican Communion, and Western Orthodoxy. It is also used by evangelical Protestant denominations such as Presbyterians, Methodists, Congregationalists and many Baptists. 

This creed seems to have been made as an argument against Gnosticism. Gnosticism was a heresy in the early days of the Church. This can be seen in almost every phrase. For example, the creed states that Christ was born and suffered and died on the cross. This seems to be a statement directly against the heretical teaching, which states that Christ only appeared to become man, and that he did not truly suffer and die, but only appeared as if he did. The Apostles' Creed, as well as other creeds, was made to be like an example of the apostles' teachings, and to defend the Gospel of Christ. 

The creed is named Apostles' Creed because it is made of twelve articles. People believed every apostle inspired the Holy Ghost after Pentecost wrote one article. Because of its early origin, it does not address some issues defined in the later Nicene and other Christian Creeds. This makes it acceptable to many Arians and Unitarians.

 Many hypotheses exist concerning the date and nature of the origin of the Apostles' Creed. Many suppose it comes from "the Old Roman Symbol" of the 1st or 2nd century and was influenced later by the Nicene Creed .

For more information on the origin of the Apostles' Creed, see the detailed discussion in the Catholic Encyclopedia.

 Credo in Deum Patrem omnipotentem, Creatorem caeli et terrae. Et in Iesum Christum, Filium Eius unicum, Dominum nostrum, qui conceptus est de Spiritu Sancto, natus ex Maria Virgine, passus sub Pontio Pilato, crucifixus, mortuus, et sepultus, descendit ad ínferos, tertia die resurrexit a mortuis, ascendit ad caelos, sedet ad dexteram Dei Patris omnipotentis, inde venturus est iudicare vivos et mortuos. Credo in Spiritum Sanctum, sanctam Ecclesiam catholicam, sanctorum communionem, remissionem peccatorum, carnis resurrectionem, vitam aeternam. Amen.

 In the Church of England there are currently two authorized forms of the creed: that of the Book of Common Prayer and that of Common Worship .

 The United Methodists commonly incorporate the Apostles' Creed into their worship services. It is special because it does not have the line "he descended into hell", but is otherwise very similar to the Book of Common Prayer version. The 1989 Hymnal has both the traditional version and the ecumenical version, which includes "he descended to the dead." 

The United Methodist Hymnal also contains what it terms the "Ecumenical Version" of this creed -- a version which is identical to that found in the Episcopal Church's current Book of Common Prayer. This form of the Apostles' Creed can be found incorporated into the Eucharistic and Baptismal Liturgies in the Hymnal and in The United Methodist Book of Worship, and hence it is growing in popularity and use.

 The English Language Liturgical Consultation is an international ecumenical group whose primary purpose is to provide ecumenically accepted texts for those who use English in their liturgy. In 1988 it produced a translation of the Apostles' Creed, distinguished among other things by its avoidance of the word "his" in relation to God. The text is as follows:

<TITLE>Agar</TITLE>
The word agar comes from the Malay word agar-agar . Chemically comes from agarose. It is obtained from red algae Gellidium and Gracillaria. It is used as a place to grow bacteria in an microbiology laboratory, and to make some foods thicker, like soup.

<TITLE>Acid rain</TITLE>
Acid rain is rain or any other form of precipitation that is unusually acidic, i.e. elevated levels of hydrogen ions . It can have harmful effects on plants, aquatic animals, and infrastructure through the process of wet deposition. Acid rain is caused by emissions of compounds of ammonium, carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur which react with the water molecules in the atmosphere to produce acids. Governments have made efforts since the 1970s to reduce the production of sulfuric oxide into the Earth's atmosphere with positive results. However, it can also be caused naturally by the splitting of nitrogen compounds by the energy produced by lightning strikes, or the release of sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere by volcano eruptions.

<TITLE>Arlo Guthrie</TITLE>
Arlo Guthrie is an American musician and songwriter, and is the son of folk music legend Woody Guthrie. His most famous song is "Alice's Restaurant", which was also the title of his first album.

 Guthrie learned music from his father, who wrote songs for him like "Goodnight Little Arlo". When the young Guthrie became thirteen years old, his father gave him a bar mitzvah, and invited many folk musicians. It was called "the first hootenanny bar mitzvah in history."

Guthrie met Bob Dylan when Dylan came from Minnesota to meet his father Woody. Dylan taught Guthrie a new way to play the harmonica. Guthrie started college after high school, but dropped out.

 During 1965, Guthrie visited his friends Alice and Ray Brock in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, who lived in an old church, and owned a restaurant. He recorded a commercial jingle for the restaurant. When Thanksgiving came that year, they invited many people, and afterwards there was a lot of garbage to be picked up and thrown away. Guthrie and another friend tried to take the garbage to a dump, but it was closed. They found a large trash pile not far away, and unwisely decided to throw their garbage onto the same pile. 

When local police found out, they arrested Guthrie and his friend. Since the young men had long hair and looked like hippies, the police wanted to prosecute them and make an example of them to other young people. They prepared a big court case against Guthrie and his friend, with many photographs of the litter pile. It turned out the local judge was blind, could not look at the photographs, and was not interested in the case. He fined Guthrie and his friend fifty dollars, and ordered them to clean up the pile.

Not long after, Guthrie received a notice. The United States Army wanted him to become a soldier. Guthrie went for a physical examination, and had to fill out a giving information about himself. When asked if he had ever been arrested, he talked about the littering incident. He soon found himself sitting on a bench together with criminals, some of which were violent or . He could not believe the way he was treated by the Army. He began to complain and protest his treatment. The Army officers decided he would not make a good soldier, but might become a threat to the American government. They ed Guthrie, and let him go.

Guthrie decided later the two incidents would make a good protest song, and he built one around the jingle he had written. He called the song "Alice's Restaurant Massacree", and recorded it in front of a live audience. He did not want other young men to be drafted, and suggested in the song that they might get out of the draft by doing like he had.

The recording became half of his first album, and the rest was filled out with other music, like "The Motorcycle Song". The album became a hit record.

 Guthrie later recorded other albums and songs. His song "The City of New Orleans", about a famous train named after the city, became another hit. He bought a farm with the money he earned from his music, and lived there between recording sessions and performing tours.

In time, he became interested in charity work. He noticed people of different religious beliefs did not always work well together for the same causes, because their beliefs kept them apart. He tried to work around the differences, and help people find ways to work together to solve the same problems. He started the Guthrie Center, as a place for people to work together. He later bought the old church where his friends had lived, and made it the headquarters for the Guthrie Center.

<TITLE>Antioxidant</TITLE>
An antioxidant is a molecule that can slow or stop the oxidation, or electron transfer, of other molecules. It is an additive in foods.

Antioxidants are molecules that relieve oxidative stress by preventing formation and by inhibiting oxidation of free radicals . They are able to donate one of their electrons or hydrogen to free radicals, stopping their chain reaction . Found in our diet or formed inside our body e.g. enzymes, antioxidants can protect us from the damaging effects of free radicals . 

The best way to combat free radicals is to have a diet of fresh fruits and vegetables, red wine, and green tea . These functional foods are rich in phytochemicals with antioxidant properties. Health supplements enriched with antioxidants are also now widely available.

Afzal, M., Armstrong, D. . “Fractionation of herbal medicine for identifying antioxidant activity”. In: Armstrong, D. Methods in Molecular Biology, vol. 186: Oxidative Stress Biomarkers and Antioxidant Protocols, Humana Press Inc.

Halliwell, B., Aeschbach, R., Loliger, J., Aruoma, O.I. . ”The characterization of antioxidant”. Food and Chemical Toxicology 33: 601–617.

Kaur, C., Kapoor, H. . “Review: antioxidants in fruits and vegetables – the millennium’s health”. International Journal of Food Science and Technology 36: 703–725.

Percival, M. . “Antioxidants”. Clinical Nutrition Insights 1/96 Rev. 10/98. http://acudoc.com/Antioxidants.PDF

<TITLE>Brass</TITLE>
Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc. Some types of brass are called bronzes.

Brass has a golden appearance. It is harder than pure metals. It costs more than zinc.

<TITLE>Bonn</TITLE>
Bonn is a city near Cologne. It is in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia.

Bonn was founded on an old Roman settlement, today it has about 310,000 inhabitants.

Following World War II Bonn was in the British occupation zone. In 1949 Bonn was chosen as the provisional capital of West Germany.

Bonn was the choice of Konrad Adenauer, a former Cologne Mayor and the first Chancellor of West Germany after World War II, who came from that area. Frankfurt am Main had most of the needed facilities already, so using Bonn meant spending about 95 Million DM to building new roads and building. However, Frankfurt am Main had been an important city during the war, and choosing Bonn was to symbolise a new start for the new Germany.

Because of its relatively small size for a capital city, Bonn was sometimes jokingly called the Bundesdorf .

Bonn was the capital of West Germany from 1949 until 1990 it. The Bundestag voted to move to Berlin on 20 June 1991, after a heated debate. The Federal President had already decided to make Schloß Bellevue in Berlin his main official residence. The extra building work needed meant it was 1999 before the governmentÄs move was completed.

Beethoven's birth place is located at Bonngasse. Next to the market place is the Old Town Hall, built in 1737 in Rococo style, under the rule of Clemens August of Bavaria. It's used for receptions of guests of the town, and as a bureau for the mayor. Close by is the Kurfürstliches Schloss, which has been built as a residence of the prince-elector, and nowadays is the main building of the University of Bonn.

The Poppelsdorfer Allee, an alley flanked by chestnut trees, connects the Kurfürstliches Schloss with the Poppelsdorfer Schloss, a palace that was built as a resort to prince-electors in the first half of the 18th century. This axis is interrupted by a railway line and Bonn Central Station, a building erected in 1883/84.

The three highest buildings in the city are the radio mast of WDR in Bonn-Venusberg , the headquarters of the Deutsche Post called Post Tower and the former building for the German members of parliament Langer Eugen which nowadays is the new location of the UN-Campus.

<TITLE>Ballroom dance</TITLE>
Ballroom dance is the name for a number of dances done in pairs, usually one woman and one man. The most important difference in style is between the ballroom dances , and the latin dances .

All these dances can be danced socially, more or less any way people want to. As competition dances, they are organised under the rule of the World Dance Council. These competitions are known as the International style, because all international competitions are conducted with those regulations. There are other systems of dance regulated by national bodies. American style is one; Scottish dancing is another; Greek classical dance is another. 

Although the most famous dancers were Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, they did not dance in ballrooms. Their career together was entirely on film. Astair danced also on the stage, and on television. The most famous American pair were Vernon and Irene Castle; and Arthur Murray, whose chain of dance schools taught many Americans to dance. The most famous English dancer was probably Victor Silvester, who was a professional dancer and bandleader.

Most of these are dances that started in other places, but were developed in their modern form by English dancers and dance teachers.

Most people do these dances for fun. When people compete against each other, the women wear formal dresses for standard competition and short skirts for Latin. Men wear evening wear for standard and informal shirts for Latin.

People compete at many levels, but the basic division is between amateurs and professionals. Then, amongst amateurs, there are ages grades: Juvenile, under 14, Junior, under 21 and Amateur. In the USA, competitions may be divided according to dancing ability: Newcomer, Pre-Bronze, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Pre-Championship, and Championship. The best-known competition is the Blackpool Dance Festival, England. This has been going annually since 1920 , and its events, like most English events, are open to the world.

Some people earn medals to show how they are improving. They dance in front of a judge to earn a medal at the Bronze, Silver, or Gold levels.

There are also some line dances, in which people dance as a group instead of with a partner. Some line dances are done to Mambo, Waltz, Paso Doble, and Samba.

Some people dance in couples, but also as a group, with everyone doing the same steps. This is called formation dancing.

 American style ballroom dancing is sometimes called Social style. It includes smooth and rhythm dances:

<TITLE>Baltic Sea</TITLE>
The Baltic Sea is a sea in northern Europe between Scandinavia, Finland, Russia, the Baltic countries, Poland, and Germany.

Many big rivers in the surrounding countries drain into the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is connected to the ocean through the narrow and shallow Danish straits and belts. For this reason, the water has a low content of salt, so the northern parts of the sea freeze over in the winter. The ice can carry cars, and roads are established every winter between the islands in the archipelagos between Sweden and Finland.

For several thousand years the Baltic Sea has connected the countries at her shores. For that reason you will find many cultural similarities in these countries.

<TITLE>Brackish water</TITLE>
Brackish water is salt water and fresh water mixed together. It is saltier than fresh water, but not as salty as seawater. It may result from mixing of seawater with fresh water, as in estuaries, or it may occur in brackish fossil aquifers. 

Certain human activities can produce brackish water, in particular certain civil engineering projects such as dikes and the flooding of coastal marshland to produce brackish water pools for freshwater prawn farms. 

Technically, brackish water contains between 0.5 and 30 grams of salt per litremore often expressed as 0.5 to 30 parts per thousand . Thus, brackish covers a range of salinity regimes and is not considered a precisely defined condition. It is characteristic of many brackish surface waters that their salinity can vary considerably over space and/or time.

 The term brackish water comes from the Low German word Brack, which is a small lake created when a storm tide breaks a dike and floods land behind the dike.

An estuary is a body of water with fresh and salt water.The most important brackish water habitats are estuaries, where a river meets the sea. The River Thames flowing through London is one of the most familiar of river estuaries. , .

 Another important brackish water habitat is the mangrove swamp or mangal. .

 Some seas and lakes are brackish. The Baltic Sea is a brackish sea adjoining the North Sea. .

The Caspian Sea is the world's largest lake and contains brackish water with a salinity about one-third that of normal seawater. The Caspian is famous for its peculiar animal fauna, including one of the few non-marine seals and the great sturgeons, a major source of caviar.

<TITLE>The Bronx</TITLE>
The Bronx is a part of New York City, United States. The name came from Bronck's Farms, owned by a settler called Jonas Bronck.

<TITLE>Belgium</TITLE>
Belgium is a country in Europe. It is next to France, Luxembourg, Germany, and the Netherlands. The name 'Belgium' comes from 'Gallia Belgica', a Roman region in the northernmost part of Gaul where the Belgae lived, a combination of Celtic and Germanic peoples.

The capital city of Belgium is Brussels.

There are three regions in Belgium: Flanders in the northern half of Belgium, Wallonia in the southern half and the Brussels-Capital Region in the middle . 

Inside Wallonia is the area of the German-speaking Community of Belgium. The community has its own parliament and government, but they are not yet as powerful as the Flemish and Walloon bodies. 

Belgium is next to France , Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands . Its total area, with surface water area, is 33,990 square kilometers, the land area alone is 30,528 km2. Belgium has three main geographical regions: the coastal plain in the north-west and the central plateau are part of the Anglo-Belgian Basin; the Ardennes uplands in the south-east are part of the Hercynian orogenic belt. The Paris Basin reaches a small fourth area at Belgium's southernmost tip, Belgian Lorraine. The coastal plain is made up of mainly of sand dunes and polders. Further inland lies a smooth, slowly rising landscape watered by many waterways, with fertile valleys and the northeastern sandy plain of the Campine . The hills with many forests and plateaus of the Ardennes are more rough and rocky with caves and small, narrow valleys. Extending to the west into France, this area is eastwardly linked to the Eifel in Germany by the High Fens plateau, on which the Signal de Botrange forms the country's highest point at 694 metres .

<TITLE>Blues</TITLE>
The blues is a form of music that started in the United States during the start of the 20th century. It was started by former African slaves from spirituals, praise songs, and chants. The first blues songs were called Delta blues. These songs came from the area near the mouth of the Mississippi River.

Blues is based around a very simple pattern. “Blues is easy to play, but hard to feel”-Jimi Hendrix. A common form for the blues is a repeating 12 bar form . This is put together as 3 phrases or sections, each being 4 bars long. The basic blues only needs 3 chords, one based on the first note of the scale - the tonic chord, one based on the fourth note of the scale - the subdominant chord, and one based on the fifth note of the scale - the dominant chord. The first section or phrase of 4 bars only uses the tonic chord. A common variation is to use the subdominant chord in the second bar. The second phrase has 2 bars of subdominant chord then 2 bars of tonic chord. The third phrase has 1 bar of dominant chord, 1 bar of subdominant chord and finishes with 2 bars of tonic chord.

The melody of the simplest blues scales are based on the minor pentatonic scale for example C Eflat G A Bflat C, with extra notes added like this C Eflat Gflat G A Bflat C. Blue notes do not normally fit a scale, but they give the music a special feeling.

The lyrics are usually about life, the bad things in life. They are to simple blues songs are also based around the form of 3 phrases. The first phrase is set over the first 4 bars of music. The second phrase words are a repetition of the first phrase, this always happens and emphasises the message. The third phrase completes the "story" and rhymes as the first line. This verse from Robert Johnson's "Crossroad Blues" shows how these phrases work in a song:

The blues have made a difference in newer American and Western popular music, such as jazz, bluegrass, rhythm and blues, rock and roll, hip-hop, and country music, as well as common pop songs.

<TITLE>Berlin</TITLE>
Berlin is the capital city of Germany. It is also the biggest city in Germany. About 3,400,000 people as of November 2008 live there. .

The city is in the eastern part of Germany. It is about 70 k west of Poland. Berlin has an area of 891 k. The rivers Havel, Dahme and Spree run through Berlin.

Berlin is home to many famous buildings, like the Siegessäule, the Brandenburger Tor, the Reichstag and the boulevard Unter den Linden. On the boulevard are the Humboldt University and the State Opera of Berlin. The Governing Mayor of the city is Klaus Wowereit .

Berlin was divided into West Berlin and East Berlin after World War II. After the Berlin Wall was built in 1961 very few people were allowed to cross from West Berlin into East Berlin. The wall divided the city until 1989 when the East German government decided to allow anyone to cross, and people decided to destroy the wall.

 Berlin has partnerships with 17 cities. Each of the 12 boroughs also has their sister cities, sometimes called twin cities.

<TITLE>Bill Clinton</TITLE>
William Jefferson Clinton was , better known as Bill Clinton, was the 42nd president of the United States. He served from 1993 to 2001. He was 46 years old when he was elected. His major opponents were George H. W. Bush and Bob Dole. Clinton was the first president from the Baby Boom generation and was the third youngest president in the U.S. He is a Democrat.

Before he was president, Clinton was also governor of Arkansas .

During the early part of Clinton's first term, he implemented a tax code which would increase taxes on the rich and decrease taxes on the poor.

In 1994, during Clinton's first term in office, the Congress switched to a Republican majority. However, Clinton still beat Republican Bob Dole in the 1996 election.

The Republicans defeated Clinton's proposal for the U.S. government to adopt universal health care. The Republicans proposed many new ideas to Congress to limit the size of government such as requiring the budget to be balanced and to stop people from abusing the welfare system.

President Clinton was accused of wrongdoing by the U.S. House of Representatives in December 1998 during the Monica Lewinsky scandal. Although he lied that they did not engage in sexual activity, he was found to have done nothing wrong by the U.S. Senate in February 1999. 

The country faced very few challenges during his term. The Cold War was over and there was very little need for the U.S. military to get involved in the world's affairs, so defense spending was significantly lowered. The economy was doing very well during his term, though there is a debate whether the economy was well because of Clinton's policies or because of the Republicans' policies.

The decade ended with the being the first time the United States did not have to borrow money to pay for its budget. Clinton left office with high approval ratings.

 After his presidency, he wrote some books and travelled around the world helping out the United States. He is married to US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and now lives in New York. He is now the U.S. envoy to Haiti.

<TITLE>Beer</TITLE>
Beer is an alcoholic drink. It is made with water, hops, barley , and yeast . Beer is made when the yeast 'eats' sugar taken from the barley and turns it into alcohol and carbon dioxide. Making beer is called "brewing".

Beer is made by adding warm water to malted barley and other grains. The enzymes in the barley change the malted barley and other grains into simple sugars. This is called the mash. The water is then sparged from the grain. The water is now called wort. The wort is boiled and hops are added. Hops provide flavour and preserve the beer. After boiling the wort is cooled and yeast is added. The yeast turns the sugars into alcohol and the wort into beer.

Different beers can have different natures, depending on the ingredients used; for example, an ale uses top fermenting yeast. Top fermenting yeasts eat more sugar and produce more alcohol. A lager uses bottom fermenting yeast. Bottom fermenting yeasts eat less sugar and produce a crisper, cleaner taste. Adding hops makes the beer more bitter and aromatic. Specialty malts produce different flavours and colours. These flavours and colours are most notable in dark beers like Porter and Stout.

Different countries have different ways to make beer. In Germany, Austria,Switzerland, Czech Republic, and Slovakia, beer is usually made from just hops, malt, water, and yeast. This is because of the Reinheitsgebot. The Reinheitsgebot was a law that said says that beer can only be made from hops, malt, and water. Yeast was discovered after the Reinheitsgebot. The law was overturned by the European Union in 1992. In Belgium, however, beers are also have always been made with wheat, sugar, fruit, and other ingredients.

The earliest records of beer were written around 7000 years ago by the Sumerians. It is said that the Sumerians discovered the fermentation process by accident. It is not known exactly how this happened, but it could be that a piece of bread or grain became wet, and a short time later, it began to ferment and made a pulp that caused people to become drunk. A seal around 4,000 years old is a Sumerian "Hymn to Ninkasi", the goddess of brewing. This "hymn" is also a recipe for making beer. A description of the making of beer on this ancient engraving in the Sumerian language is the earliest account of what is easily recognised as barley, followed by a pictograph of bread being baked, crumbled into water to form a mash, and then made into a drink, that is recorded as having made people feel "...wonderful and blissful". It could even be possible that bread was first baked to be a way to make beer that is easy to carry around. The Sumerians were probably the first people to brew beer. They had found a "divine drink" -- they felt it was a gift from the gods.   Normal beers have around 4-6 % alcohol . In brewing beer, the amount of alcohol can be made more or less quite easily. The Belgian types of beer are made by adding more sugar. Through the fermentation, this will then turn to alcohol. Today, there are beers with between 2% and about 16% of alcohol . Some beer labels say there is no alcohol in them because it was taken out later. This is not completely true, though. Beers "without alcohol" usually do have less than 1% of alcohol.

<TITLE>Bit</TITLE>
A bit is a small amount of something, such as a bit that is the smallest amount of computer or electronic information storage. It can be set to 0 or 1 , as machine-readable information. 

8 bits are called a byte.

<TITLE>Byte</TITLE>
A byte is a unit of measurement. One byte is equal to eight bits. It is used when talking about the size of computer, or other electronic data . 

 "Byte" is properly abbreviated as uppercase "B". 

Sometimes it is incorrectly abbreviated as lowercase "b"; lowercase "b" is the abbreviation for "bit". For example, "MB" means "Megabyte" and "Mb" means "Megabit". The difference is important because 1 Megabyte is 1,000,000 bytes, and 1 Megabit is 1,000,000 bits. It's easy to confuse the two, but bits are much smaller than bytes, so a lowercase "b" should be used when referring to "bits" and an uppercase "B" when referring to "bytes". 

 According to the International Electrotechnical Commission , who sets many computer standards, these charts show how bytes should be referred to.

==="kilo-" = 1,000 bytes"kibi-" = 1,024 bytes=== Since computers are digital devices that are based on the binary numeral system rather than the commonly-used decimal numeral system, there are many situations where the standard metric system doesn't work well, particularly with USB drives and other types of flash memory or RAM. People who refer to 1 Kilobyte as 1,024 bytes, for example, are technically incorrect; 1,024 bytes should be referred to as 1 Kibibyte, according to the IEC. 

<TITLE>Beryllium</TITLE>
Beryllium is an alkaline earth metal. It is grayish in color. It has an atomic number of 4 and is symbolized by the letters Be. It is toxic and should not be handled by anyone without proper training.

Beryllium's atomic structure consists of 4 electrons, 4 protons, and 5 neutrons.

Beryllium is most likely known for the chemical compounds it forms. Some of these are emeralds and aquamarines.

Beryllium has one of the highest melting points of the light metals.

At standard temperature and pressures beryllium resists oxidation when exposed to oxygen.

<TITLE>Britney Spears</TITLE>
Britney Spears , is an American Pop singer.

 Britney Spears was born in McComb, Mississippi, about 25 miles away from where she grew up in Kentwood, Louisiana. Her parents are James and Lynne Spears. She has an older brother, Bryan and a younger sister, Jamie Lynn Spears . Ever since Britney was very young she liked to sing, dance and act so she took lessons. Britney also did gymnastics and she was very good at it. When Britney was eight, she tried out for a TV program for children in called the New Mickey Mouse Club. She was great, but too young. Every summer for the next three years, Britney went to a school for performing arts in New York City. It was a long way from home for a young child, her mother and baby sister from a small town to go but Britney's family believed in her. At the age of 11, Britney tried out once again for the Mickey Mouse Club and was on the show from 1993. It was filmed in Lakeland, Florida Others on the show during this time were singers Christina Aguilera, Justin Timberlake, and JC Chasez , and actors Ryan Gosling and Keri Russell. After the Mickey Mouse Club ended in 1994, Britney Spears went back to her hometown, Kentwood and went to high school. In 1995 and 1996, she was voted Junior High School Most Beautiful. Britney liked her home but really wanted to sing and dance again. In 1997 she joined a girl group called Innosense but she wanted to be a solo singer. Later that year, the 16 year old Britney was signed by Jive Records.

In 1998, she made her first song, "...Baby One More Time". The music video for the song is famous for showing Britney in a schoolgirl uniform.

Spears is currently the 8th best selling female artist in America and has sold 83 million records worldwide. She has one Grammy, three MTV Video Music Awards, and her own star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Her most successful songs to date are "Toxic", "Baby One More Time", "Gimme More" and "Womanizer".

Her most recent album 'Circus' was released on her birthday, December 2nd, 2008. It reached number one in the United States and many other countries. Four singles have been released so far : Womanizer, Circus, If U Seek Amy and Radar. 

She is currently touring America, singing and performing songs from Circus, as well as her older albums.

 In 2002, Spears played the lead role, Lucy Ann Wagner, in the movie Crossroads.

She also had a small role in the movie Austin Powers in Goldmember in 2002.

 On January 3, 2004, Spears married her childhood friend Jason Allan Alexander in Las Vegas, Nevada, United States. The marriage was cancelled only 55 hours later.

On September 18, 2004, Spears married Kevin Federline. They had a son together on September 14, 2005 named Sean Preston Spears Federline. On September 12, 2006, Britney gave birth to her second child, another son named Jayden James Spears Federline.

In November 2006, Spears filed for divorce from Kevin.

In September of 2007, Spears lost some custody of her two children, Sean Preston and Jayden James, to her ex-husband, Kevin Federline.

At the beginning of January 2008, Spears lost full custody of her children after a mental breakdown. The media reported mostly on Britney Spears' mental issues and custody battle with ex-husband Federline. 

Since February 2008, her father has taken control of her estate and has helped Britney to get her life back to normal. 

Britney currently has 50/50 custody of her two sons.

<TITLE>Brazil</TITLE>
Brazil is a country in South America and it is the world's fifth largest country. The country has a population of 186 million people. People in Brazil speak Portuguese and it is the only country in Latin America that speaks Portuguese; most of the others speak Spanish. The capital of Brazil is Brasília, a city planned and built from 1957 to 1960. The country also has the world's fourth largest city, São Paulo. 

 Brazil has the world's largest forest, the Amazon Rainforest. It makes up 40% of the country's land area. Brazil also has other types of land; there is a type of savanna called cerrado; there is also a dry plant region named caatinga. Caatinga means white vegetation in Tupi, a native language of Brazil.

Brazil is known for soccer, but it also has many other things: a varied culture , and a growing economy. Brazil is the largest country and in South America and the largest economy in Latin America. Its people include people of Portuguese or other European descent, African descent, and native Amerindians, as well as many people of mixed origins. Brazil also has the biggest number of Japanese descendents outside Japan. The country is the fifth largest in the world by area. It is known for its numerous rainforests and jungles. It neighbours Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana, Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, Argentina and Uruguay, therefore it borders every country in South America, with the exception of two, Chile and Ecuador.

The most important cities are São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador, Brasília, Curitiba, Belo Horizonte, Porto Alegre, Recife, Fortaleza, Manaus, Goiânia and Vitória.

People from Brazil are called Brazilians .

 The Olympics Games will be in Brazil and also the Soccer World Cup .

<TITLE>Black Forest</TITLE>
The Black Forest is a world famous forest in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Important towns are : Pforzheim, Calw, Baden-Baden, Offenburg, Freudenstadt, Horb, Villingen-Schwenningen, Titisee-Neustadt and Waldshut-Tiengen. The highest mountain is the Feldberg . The Black Forest is quite popular for hiking, skiing and Nordic walking. In Triberg, at the lake Titisee and in other places you can buy the famous cuckoo clocks. A good way to get to know the Black Forest is to travel on the Deutsche Uhrenstraße, a "National Scenic Byway." 

<TITLE>Black Sea</TITLE>
The Black Sea is a sea in Eurasia between Europe, Caucasus, and Anatolia. Many big rivers connect to the the Black Sea, like Don, Danube, and Dnieper rivers.

It is connected to the Atlantic ocean through the Mediterranean Sea, Aegean Sea, and many straits. 90% of the sea has no oxygen, and the water has salt in it. During the last ice age, the Black Sea was a freshwater lake.

 In Greek mythology, the Argonauts traveled on the sea. The sea was very important to trade for many countries in ancient history. It was also important during World War I and World War II.

<TITLE>Bible</TITLE>
The Bible is a collection of texts written by different people. Certain texts were written by historians who tried to show what Ancient Israel was like. Other texts are poems about God. Still others were used to make laws. All texts were written over a period of about 1200 years. Followers of Judaism and Christianity consider the Bible sacred but they do not all agree about what belongs in the Bible. A number of texts are both in the Hebrew Bible, used by Jews, and the Christian one. 

There are many names for the Bible; some call it Holy Scripture, Holy Writ or the Good Book. The Bible was written long ago in Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek, and translations were made later into Latin and some other languages. Now there are translations English and many other languages.

When talking about the Bible, a book is used to speak about a number of texts. All the texts that make a book are believed to belong together. Most of the time, people believe they were written or collected by the same person. Sometimes, all the texts of a book also have a common subject, for example how to punish someone who has done something against the law. The Bible contains different kinds of such books. Some are history, telling the stories of the Jews, Jesus, or Jesus' followers. Some are collections of wise sayings. Some are God's commands to His people, which He expects them to obey. Some are songs of praise to God. Some are books of prophecy, messages from God that He gave through chosen people called prophets.

Today, a complete version of the Bible exists in 429 languages. Parts have been translated in 2429 languages. Most bibles can be found in the British Museum in London.

The Bible is a collection of books. The first part is called the Old Testament or Tanakh. It was mostly written in Hebrew; a few parts are written in Aramaic. This part of the Bible is considered to be holy by Jews as well as Christians. 

There are a few parts of the Old Testament that can be proven by science. These parts are called Deuterocanonical by those Churches that accept them as part of the Bible, and Apocrypha by those that do not.

The second part is called the New Testament, which is written in Greek. The main part of this book is the story of the life of Jesus Christ. The four different versions of this story in the New Testament are called the Gospels. The New Testament also contains letters by early Christian leaders, especially Saint Paul. One of the most quoted verses in the Bible is : "God loved the world so much that he gave his one and only Son, so that whoever believes in him will not be destroyed but live forever."

People have different ideas about what the Bible is. Christians believe it is God's Word to people. The Jews believe that only the Old Testament is from God. Protestants and Catholics believe that the Old and New Testaments are God's Word. Catholics also believe that the books called Apocryphal or Deuterocanonical are part of the Bible. Sometimes different church disagree over exactly what the Bible means.

According to Islam, much of the Bible is true, but the Koran is better. Atheists do not believe that God exists, so they do not believe that God could have sent people to the earth to write the Bible.

<TITLE>British Columbia</TITLE>
British Columbia is located on the west coast of Canada. It is the third largest Canadian province with 944,735 square kilometers or 364,764 square miles. In the 2006 census, the population was 4,113,487.

The capital of British Columbia is Victoria. The largest city is Vancouver. It has 2 million people in it. Other large cities include Kelowna, Abbotsford, Kamloops, Nanaimo, and Prince George.

The largest industries are: forestry, tourism, mining, and fisheries.

The province joined Canada in 1871. There were some disagreements with the United States about where to make the borders. The southern border is on the 49th parallel, as agreed to in the Oregon Treaty of 1846. The San Juan Islands and Alaska Panhandle also created conflicts, but they were resolved.

The premier of B.C. is Gordon Campbell. He leads the B.C. Liberal Party.

B.C. is next to the Pacific Ocean, as well as the province of Alberta, the Yukon Territory and the Northwest Territories; and the American states of Washington, Idaho, and Montana. The Rocky Mountains are in eastern B.C. The Okanagan is a fruit-farming area in the south-central part of the province known as the "interior."

There are many First Nations groups in British Columbia. The Nisga'a agreement in the year 2000 was B.C.'s first modern land-claims treaty.

The Winter Olympics will be held in Vancouver in 2010. Skiing will be held at Whistler, which is one of the best-known places for skiing in North America.

<TITLE>Gautama Buddha</TITLE>
Siddhārta Gautama is the person who began the religion of Buddhism. He lived from about 563 BCE to about 483 BCE. He was the most recent Buddha, and some people just call him "the Buddha". He is also called Sakyamuni or Tathāgata. Some Buddhists believe that Siddhārtha Gautama was a perfect person.

There are many old stories about the life of the Buddha. No one knows which stories are true and which stories are made up. But most historians think that the Buddha was a real person. He was very kind and wise and wanted to change the world.

Old stories say that Siddhārtha Gautama was born in the kingdom of Kapilavastu in Nepal. At that time, a clan called the Sakyas ruled Kapilavastu. His father was a king named Suddodana Gautama, and his mother was the beautiful Mahamaya. Siddhārtha lived in luxury; his father kept trouble and hard work far from him. A seer predicted that if Siddhārtha stayed inside his palace his whole life, then he would become a great king. However, if he left the palace, then he would become a great religious leader. The king did not want his son to become a religious leader. He kept Siddhartha in the palace for his whole childhood.

When he was older, his father found a woman for Siddhārtha to marry at the age of 16. He married the woman named Yashodhara, and they had a son, Rahula. and then he also married many wives.They are Thumata,Kasana,Mingala and Malikar.Siddhartha has a lot of children. Although Gautama had everything he could want, he still was not happy. He wanted to learn the meaning of his existence.

He got out of the castle against his father's orders. He saw the "Four Passing Sights": an old crippled man, a sick man, a dead man, and a holy man with no home. Right then, Gautama knew that nothing can stop people from being born, becoming old, getting sick, and dying. He decided to give up his worldly life. He would not keep his wives, his children , his wealth, or his palace. He would become a holy man with no home. He would look for the answer to the problem of birth, old age, sickness, and death. He left his home in the middle of the night.

At that time, holy men were usually ascetics. They hurt their bodies in order to help their spiritual beings. They do not do things they like so they can defeat their desires. The most ascetic kinds of holy men were called Jains. They practiced self-denial and made themselves suffer very much. They believed this would free the ātman from pain and sadness. Siddhārtha did these things well. Eventually he was better than his teachers. He still found no answer, and he left his teachers. Some friends and he went even farther. He ate only six grains of rice a day. He tried not breathing. He became just skin and bones, and he nearly died. Still, he had no answer.

Siddhārtha started to think again about this path. He thought there might be a better way than hurting himself. He found a big tree and started to meditate. He told himself that he would not get up until he had found enlightenment. He meditated under the tree for 49 days. His mind is said to have become pure, and then, six years after he began his path, he said he found Enlightenment, and became a Buddha.

When the Buddha became enlightened, he knew the answer to suffering, and he knew how to defeat suffering. This answer was called the Four Noble Truths. He was not sure if he should teach his new ideas or not. He asked himself if the world was ready for such a deep teaching. But in the end, he decided to travel to a town called Sarnath to teach the people his new way. He taught about the Four Noble Truths and the Noble Eightfold Path. The people listened to him.

When he taught, he did not pretend to be a god. He said he was just a man who had found the meaning of life , and that any person can also find the meaning of life. For the rest of his life, he walked all over Southern Nepal and parts of India to teach people what he believed. He started a Sangha, which is a group of Buddhist monks and nuns. Many people became enlightened because of him.

At the age of 80, Gautama Buddha died. The Buddha's last words were, "All things must end. Work hard for your own enlightenment".

The teachings of the Buddha are known as Buddhism. Buddhism is mostly about ending the feeling of pain that all people feel inside. Gautama Buddha taught that pain is a part of all life. He taught that pain is because of desire. And he showed that there is a way to end desire and end pain by doing good things, not doing bad things, and training one's mind. This is done to end pain and gain enlightenment. 

Buddhism teaches non-harm and balance &mdash not going too far one way or the other. The Buddha taught people to meditate, or think deeply, while sitting in the lotus position. Some Buddhist chant and meditate while walking. Buddhists sometimes do these things to understand the human heart and mind. Sometimes they do these things to understand the way the world works. Sometimes they do these things to find peace.

The Buddha would not say if gods exist or not. He taught that people should not look to gods to save them or bring them enlightenment. The gods may have power over world events and they might help people, or they might not. But Buddha believed that it is up to each person to become enlightened.

<TITLE>Bridge</TITLE>
A bridge is a structure built to cross an open space or gap. A bridge is most useful for crossing areas, such as rivers, valleys, or fissures, where wheeled vehicles are unable to go; but people have also used bridges for a long time for walking. Bridges may also be used to move vehicles in different directions without needing traffic control, such as with a highway overpass.

Bridges also have uses in the military, because the enemy might try to dig holes in the ground or create rivers in order to prevent tanks and the supply line from following. Military bridges have to be portable, so that they may be easily moved to the front lines, and so they are much more complex than regular civilian bridges. There are four main types of bridges: beam bridges, cantilever bridges, arch bridges and suspension bridges. Beam bridges are mostly straight-out and simple. A cantilever bridge is a bridge built using cantilevers: structures that go horizontally into space, supported on only one end. Arch bridges are just that: Bridges that have arches. Suspension bridges are suspended from many steel ropes that support, or hold up, the bridge.

<TITLE>Board game</TITLE>
A board game is a game usually played with pieces on a board-like area. Board games may also involve dice, cards, money,Board chips,etc. Some examples of board games are chess, scrabble, checkers, backgammon, irensei, parqués and go. Chess & checkers are played on a 8x8 square board, consisting of 32 white & black squares.

<TITLE>Bead</TITLE>
A bead is a small item with a hole in it for stringing. Beads can be made from many different things including wood, glass, and gemstones. The oldest known beads are over 100,000 years old.

<TITLE>Baruch Spinoza</TITLE>
Baruch Spinoza was a Dutch philosopher of Portuguese Jewish origin. He is considered to be one of the great Rationalist philosophers of the 17th century. Other famous rationalists include Gottfried Leibniz and René Descartes.

Spinoza's ideas were disliked by the Jewish community of the time, and Spinoza was excommunicated in 1656.

An important idea in Spinoza's philosophy is that God and Nature are the same thing. Opposing Dualism, Spinoza said that the body and the mind are two of God's infinite attributes. 

There is no good or evil in Nature, and that these words only have meanings for human beings. For a person, an event that leads to happiness is good, and an event that leads to suffering is bad. 

The goal of every person is to intellectually love God .

<TITLE>Being</TITLE>
The word being means the same as "person". Men, women, and children are human beings.

Some people write stories or make movies about beings from other planets. Most religions talk about supernatural beings, for example spirits, angels, devils, gods, or God.

Being is something THAT IS.

<TITLE>Bird</TITLE>
Birds are a group of animals called vertebrates, or animals with backbones. They form the class Aves.

They are warm-blooded and lay eggs. Their bodies are covered with feathers and they have wings. Their bones are hollow. This makes them lighter and allows many of them to fly. Birds have two legs usually covered with scales . They have a hard beak with no teeth. Because birds keep a high body temperature, they use lots of energy. So, they need to eat a lot of food compared with their weight. More than 9000 different species of birds are known. 

Birds are found on every continent of the world. Birds of different types can live in freezing cold environments, and and others can live in hot deserts. Birds live in forests, in grasslands, on cliff faces, in river banks, on stony sea shores, down mine shafts and in the rooves of houses. 

Different types of birds eat different foods. Most birds are carnivorous meaning that they eat flesh, at least some of the time. Many birds live on insects or on fish. Some eat small reptiles and mice. Birds of prey eat mammals and other birds. Some birds are scavengers and eat the bodies of creatures that have died. Many birds such as parrots and finches live on seeds and fruit. Some birds that eat mainly seeds feed their young on insects. A few types of birds eat green plants, but only one species lives on leaves. Hummingbirds and Honeyeaters live on the nectar or honey in flowers. 

Birds come in many sizes from the Bee Hummingbird that is only 60 mm long to the ostrich which stands 2.5 metres high. The bird with the widest wingspan is the Wandering Albatross many of which measure 3 metres from tip to tip.   Because birds live on every continent and have adapted to all sorts of conditions, different types of birds look very different from each other. The most noticeable differences are the size, the shape of the beak, the length of the legs, the length of the neck and the colour.

The smallest types of birds are tiny birds that feed on nectar, honey and insects. The biggest birds are flightless birds with long legs-- ostriches, emus and cassowaries. However, very large birds are also found soaring high in the sky-- eagles, vultures, albatross and pelicans. The way to understand the living habits of a bird is to look at its legs and feet, its beak, its neck and its wings. 

If a bird has very long legs, then it probably spends most of its time walking, like a crane, or wading , like a flamingo. Birds with long legs need long necks to match, so they can reach their food. Birds with short legs and long necks like pelicans, geese and swans are birds that swim well and dive their heads into the water for food. Their beaks are often flat for scooping up water weeds. A pelican's beak can change into a shape like a huge bucket for catching fish.

Birds that are shaped like torpedoes are good at diving. Albatross, seagulls and kingfishers all have long strong beaks for catching fish. Some birds, such as eagles, owls vultures and hawks, have beaks which are hooked and very large claws with which they can tear and carry meat. 

Some birds have very long thin beaks that they use for dipping into flowers or poking into holes in the ground. These include hummingbirds, bee eaters and avocets. Some birds have short beaks but wide mouths that are perfect for catching insects in the air, like swallows, swifts and nightjars. Some birds that eat fruit, like toucans and hornbills, have beaks which are enormous, but are very light in weight. The curved beaks of parrots are good for eating large seeds and cracking nuts, while birds that peck small seeds and food from the ground have short beaks like pigeons. 

 Birds come in a huge range of colours. These colours can be useful to a bird in two ways. The colours can either help to hide the bird, or they can help to attract attention to the bird when it is looking for a mate.

 Many birds are brown, green or grey. These colours make a bird harder to see; they camouflage the bird. Brown is the most common colour. Brown birds include sparrows, emus, thrushes, larks, eagles, falcons and the female birds of many species such as wrens, ducks, blackbirds and peacocks. When a brown bird is in long grass or among tree trunks or rocks, it is camouflaged. Birds that live in long grass often have brown feathers streaked with black which looks like shadows. A Bittern is almost invisible in long reeds. Other birds, including starlings and minahs, are quite dark in colour, but are flecked with little spots that look like raindrops on leaves. 

Many birds from hot countries are green or have some green feathers, particularly parrots. Birds that live in green trees often have green backs, even if they have bright-coloured breasts. From the back, the birds are camouflaged. This is very useful when sitting on a nest. The bird's bright-coloured breast is hidden. Budgerigiars are bred in different colours such as blue, white and mauve, but in the wild, they are nearly all green and yellow. Even though they fly very well, they normally spend a lot of time on the ground, eating grass seeds. Their yellow and black stiped back helps to hide them in the shadows made by long dry grass, while their green breasts are a similar colour to the leaves of gum trees.

Grey birds include most pigeons and doves, cranes, storks and herons. Grey birds are often rock-living birds like pigeons, or birds that sit on dead tree trunks looking like a broken branch. Water birds like herons often have a pale grey colour which makes it harder for a fish to notice that the bird is standing, looking down for something to catch. Water birds, no matter what colour they are on top, are often white underneath, so that when a fish looks up, the bird looks like part of the sky.

Black birds include crows, ravens and male blackbirds. Some birds that are dark colours spend quite a lot of time on the ground, hopping around in the shadows under bushes. Among these birds are the male blackbird and the Satin Bowerbird which is not black but very dark blue. Crows and ravens often perch high on bare trees in the winter, where their black shape against the sky looks like the dark bare branches. 

 Many birds are not camouflaged but stand out because they are pied. This means that they are black and white. Black and white birds include magpies, pied geese, pelicans, and Australian magpies . Pied birds often have brightly coloured beaks and legs of yellow or red. The silver pheasant, with its long white tail striped with fine bars of black, has a brightly coloured face.

Some birds are famous for their colour and are named for it, such as the Bluebird, the Azure Kingfisher, the Golden Pheasant, the Scarlet Macaw, the Violet Wren and the Robin Redbreast.

Many other birds are very brightly coloured, in countless combinations. Some of the most colourful birds are quite common like pheasants, peacocks, domestic fowl and parrots. Colourful small birds include blue tits, the gold finches, humming birds, fairy wrens and bee eaters . Some birds, like those of the Bird of Paradise in Papua New Guinea have such beautiful feathers that they have been hunted for them. 

With some birds, such as flamingos, the male and the female are both brightly coloured. With other species, only the male is brightly coloured, and uses his colourful feathers to attract females. The peacock is the best example of this, but also in the domestic fowl, the male has long shiny feathers above his tail and also long neck feathers that may be a different colour to his wings and body. There are only a very few types of birds where the female is more colourful than the male.

 Most birds can fly. They do this by pushing through the air with their wings. The curved surfaces of the wings cause air currents which lift the bird. Flapping keeps the air current moving to create lift and also moves the bird forward. 

Some birds can glide on air currents without flapping. Many birds use this method when they are about to land. Some birds can also hover and remain in one place. This method is used by birds of prey such as falcons that are looking for something to eat. Seagulls are also good at hovering, particularly if there is a strong breeze. The most expert hovering birds are tiny hummingbirds which can beat their wings both backwards and forwards and can stay quite still in the air while they dip their long beaks into flowers to feed on the sweet nectar. 

 Different types of birds have different needs. Their wings are adapted to suit the way they fly. 

Large birds of prey, such as eagles, that spend a lot of time soaring on the wind have wings that are large and broad. The main flight feathers are long and wide. They help the eagle to stay on rising air currents without using much energy, while the eagle looks at the ground below, to find the next meal. When the eagle sees some small creature move, it can close its wings and fall from the sky like a missile, opening its great wings again to slow down as it comes to land. The world's largest eagle, the Philippine Eagle has a wingspan of about 2 metres wide.

Birds that live in grassland areas or open forests and feed on fruit, insects and reptiles often spend a lot of time flying short journeys looking for food and water. They have wings that are shaped in a similar way to eagles, but rounder and not as good for soaring. These include many Australian birds like Cockatoos.

Birds, such as geese, that migrate from one country to another fly very long distances. Their wings are big and strong, because the birds are large and they stock up on food for the long flight. Migrating water birds usually form family groups of 12-30 birds. They fly very high, making use of long streams of air that blow from north to south in different seasons. They are very well organised, often flying in a V pattern. The geese at the back don't have to flap so hard; they are pulled on by the wind of the ones at the front. Every so often, they change the leader so that the front bird, who does most work and sets the pace, can have a rest. Geese and swans are the highest-flying birds, reaching 8,000 metres or more when on migration. Geese often honk loudly while they are flying. It is thought that they do this to support the leader and help the young ones.

Birds that fly very quickly, such as swifts and swallows, have long narrow pointed wings. These birds need great speed because they eat insects, catching most of them while they are flying. These birds also migrate. They often collect in huge flocks of thousands of birds that move together like a whirling cloud. 

Birds that live in bushes and branches have triangular wings that help the bird change direction. Many forest birds are expert at getting up speed by flapping and then gliding steadily among the trees, tilting to avoid things as they go. Members of the kingfisher family are expert at this type of flying.

Birds such as owls that hunt at night have wings with soft rounded feathers so that they don't flap loudly. Birds that are awake at night are called nocturnal birds. Birds that are awake during the day are diurnal.

A Wandering Albatross and Arctic Tern might spend several years without coming to land. They can sleep while gliding and have wings which, when they are stretched right out, look like the wings of a jet plane. 

Bird like chickens that feed mainly on the ground and only use their wings to fly to safety have small wings.

 Some birds do not fly. These include running birds like ostriches and emus and ocean-living birds, the large penguin family. 

Ostriches and emus do not need to fly because although they feed and nest on the ground, their great size and their speed is their protection. Some other ground-feeding birds have not been so lucky. Some birds such as the Dodo and the Kiwi were ground-feeding birds that lived in safety on islands where there was nothing dangerous to eat them. They lost the power of flight. Kiwis are endangered because European settlement to New Zealand brought animals like cats, dogs and rats which kill kiwis and eat their eggs. However, Kiwis and also the rare New Zealand Ground Parrot have survived. In the case of Dodos, they were fat and delicious. They were killed and eaten by sailors until there was none left. Other flightless birds which have disappeared are the Auk and the Moa.

Penguins spend a great deal of time at sea, where they are in danger from seals. On land, they usually live in areas where there were few dangers, until the arrival of European settlers with dogs and cats. Their wings have adapted to life in the sea and have become flippers which help them in swimming very fast.

 Although birds are warm-blooded creatures like mammals, they do not give birth to live babies. They lay eggs like cold-blooded creatures such as lizards. Unlike most reptiles, the shell of a bird's egg is hard. The baby bird grows inside the egg and after a few weeks, breaks out, or hatches. 

Birds in cold climates usually have a breeding season once a year in the spring. Migratory birds can have two springs and two mating seasons in a year. So can birds that live in hot climates. 

When the breeding season arrives, the birds choose partners. Some birds are mated for life, like married couples. These birds include pigeons, geese, and cranes. Other birds look for new partners each year and sometimes a male bird or cock will have several wives. 

For birds that choose new mates, part of the breeding season is display. The male bird will do all sorts of things to attract females. These include singing, dancing, showing off the feathers and building a beautiful nest. Some male birds have splendid feathers for attracting females. The most famous is the peacock who can spread the feathers above his tale into a huge fan. 

 Once the birds have found partners, they find a suitable place to lay eggs. The idea of what is a suitable place differs between species, but most build bird nests. Robins will make a beautiful little round nest of woven grass and carefully line it with feathers, bits of fluff and other soft things. Swallows like to nest near other swallows. They make nests from little blobs of clay, often on a beam near the roof of a building where it is well sheltered. Many birds like a hollow tree to nest in. Eagle's nests are often just piles of dead wood on the top of the tallest tree or mountain. Scrub Turkeys scratch together a huge pile of leaves that may be 10 metres across. Guillemots lay their eggs on rock shelves with no nest at all. Their eggs are shaped so that they roll around in circles. A cuckoo doesn't make its own nest. It lays its egg in the nest of another bird and leaves it for them to care for. The cuckoo eggs are camouflaged to look like the host's eggs.

When the nest has been prepared, the birds mate so that the eggs are fertilised and the chicks will start growing. Unlike mammals, birds only have one opening as the exit hole for body fluids. The opening is called the cloaca. A female bird, called a hen has two ovaries, of which the left one usually produces eggs. 

Most male birds have no sex organs that can be seen. But inside the male are two testes which produce sperm which is stored in the cloaca. Birds mate by rubbing their cloacas together, although with some birds, particularly large water birds, the male has a sort of a penis inside the cloaca.

 Once the hen has mated, she produces fertile eggs which have chicks growing inside them. She lays the eggs in the nest. There might be just one egg or a number of them, called a clutch. Emus might lay as many as fifteen huge dark green eggs in a clutch. After the eggs are laid, they are incubated, or kept warm so the chicks form inside. One of the good things about the fact that most birds stay together for the whole nesting time is that the work is shared. The birds generally take turns sitting on the eggs, so that both can feed. 

This is not always the case. With Emus, the male does all the sitting and all the baby-minding. With Emperor Penguins it is also the male that cares for the egg. There is only one egg, which he keeps on his feet and under his feathers, standing in a big group of males without feeding until the chick is hatched. While the eggs are hatching, the females are at sea, feeding, so that they can care for the chicks when they return. 

With birds that build mounds, the heat to hatch the eggs comes from the sun on the rotten leaves. The parents leave the mound. When the chicks hatch, they are strong enough to feed themselves. 

Many types of birds take 2-4 weeks to hatch eggs. Albatrosses take 80 days. During this time the female loses a lot of her body weight. 

The quickest hatching time is for the Cuckoo. Some types of cuckoos take only 10 days. This means that when they hatch in the nest of their "foster parents", the eggs that the parents have laid are not yet ready. Newborn cuckoos are naked, blind and ugly, but they are very strong. They get under any eggs that are in the nest and throw them out before they hatch. That means that the cuckoo has the whole care of both parents. Baby cuckoos grow fast and are often soon bigger than the parents who feed them. 

When baby birds hatch, in most types of birds, they are fed by both parents, and sometimes by older aunties as well. Their mouths are open all the time and are often very brightly coloured so the parents can easily see where to put the food. For birds that eat grain and fruit, the parents eat and partly digest the food for the babies. It is then vomitted carefully into the babies mouth. 

 Many birds, particularly those that mate for life, are very sociable and keep together in a family group which might be anything from 4 or 6 adult birds and their young to a very large flock. 

As chicks grow they change the fluffy down that covers them as babies for real feathers. At this stage they are called fledglings. Other family members may help care for fledgling chicks, feeding them, and protecting them from attack while parents are feeding. When the fledglings have their new feathers, they come out of the nest to learn to fly. In some types of birds, like pigeons, the parents watch over this and as the young ones get stronger, will give them flying lessons, teaching them how to glide, how to fly in spirals and how to land like an expert.

 Flocks of birds can be very highly organised in a way that takes care of all the flock members. Studies of small flocking birds like tree sparrows show that they clearly communicate with each other, as sometimes thousands of birds may fly in close formation and spiral patterns without colliding . 

Two common behaviours in flocking birds are guarding and reconnaissance. When a flock of birds is feeding it is common for one bird to perch on a high place to keep guard over the flock. In the same way, when a flock is asleep, often, one bird will remain awake. It is also common for large flocks to send one or two birds ahead of them when they are flying to a new area. The look-out birds can spy the lie of the land to find food, water and good places to perch. .

 All birds make sounds to communicate. The types of noises that they make are different. All birds have cries which are the sounds to communicate. Some birds can also sing. These birds are called songbirds. Some songbirds are robins, larks, canaries, thrushes, nightingales and crows. Birds that are not songbirds are pigeons, seagulls, eagles, owls and ducks. Parrots are not songbirds, even though they can be taught to sing human songs. 

 The Austrian naturalist Konrad Lorenz studied the way in which birds communicate, or talk to each other. He found that each type of bird had a number of sounds which they made automatically, when ever they felt a certain way. Every sound had an action that went with it. So, if the bird was frightened, it acted frightened and made a frightened sound. This told the other birds around it that something frightening was happening. 

If a flock of birds were flying over a field, they would be calling "Fly! Fly!" But a hungry bird, seeing something good to eat down below might start calling "Food! Food!" If other birds were also hungry, they would make the same call until more birds were calling "Food! Food!" than "Fly! Fly!". At this point, the mind of the flock would be changed. Some of the birds would start to yell "Fly downwards! Fly downwards!" as they sank from the sky, until the whole flock was all noisily calling the same thing. 

These communication sounds are often short hard sounds like chirps, squeaks, squawks. and twitters. Sometimes the calls are longer and more musical. They include the "Rookety-coo" sound of a pigeon and the "Cockadoodledoo!" of a rooster. The bird cannot change these sounds. They always make them in the same way. The bird is locked into making each sound every time a particular idea comes into its head.

 When a bird sings, it can chose what it sings and it can change its song. Most singing birds that are kept as pets, like canaries, have several tunes and some variations. Songbirds in the wild can learn songs from each other. The same species of bird will sing different songs in different regions. 

A good example of this is the Currawong. This is an Australia bird which is like a black and white crow. In the autumn, families get together in large flocks and do a lot of singing. Currawongs from some areas sing much more complex songs than others. Generally, Currawongs from the Blue Mountains are the finest singers. 

The song of the Currawong can be sung as a solo, but is often performed as a choir. One bird will take the lead and sing "Warble-warble-warble-warble!" All the other birds will join in and sing "Wooooooo!" When all the birds know the song, the choir will sing the "Warble" part and the soloist will sing the "Woo!". The song changes from year to year and from place to place. 

Konrad Lorenz noticed that when birds sing, they often use a lot of their regular calls as part of the song. Lorenz had a flock of Jackdaws which were scattered during World War II. One day, an old bird returned. For many months she sat on the chimney singing her song, but in the song she kept making the call which Lorenz knew meant "Come home! Come home!" One day, to the great surprise of Lorenz, a male bird flew from a passing flock and joined her on the chimney. Lorenz was sure that it was her long-lost "husband" who had found his way home at last.

Birds are classified by taxonomists as "Aves". The "Aves" are descended from carnivorous dinosaurs called Therapods. Aves and Crocodilia , are the only living members of the Archosaur reptiles. Aves is now defined as all descendants of the most recent common ancestor of modern birds and Archaeopteryx lithographica.

 Archaeopteryx, from the Upper Jurassic , is the earliest known type of bird. It is famous, because it was one of the first important fossils found after Charles Darwin published his ideas about evolution in the 19th century. Today it is the oldest, simplest bird we know. Some biologists think that Archaeopteryx could not fly very well. Other early birds now extinct are, for example, the Confuciusornithidae, Enantiornithes, Ichthyornis, and Hesperornis. 

Scientists have been studying fossils in China to discover more about the origin of birds. Palaeontologists now agree that birds evolved from theropod dinosaurs. Some scientists think of birds as a type of dinosaur that is still alive today and belongs to the Maniraptora group of theropods. Fossils found in the Liaoning Province of Northeast China show that many small theropod dinosaurs had feathers. A dromaeosaur fossil called a Cryptovolans could probably fly. It may have been better at flying than Archaeopteryx. 

Birds are an important thing for people to eat. The sort of birds that people eat most often is the chicken and its eggs, but people often also eat geese, pheasants, turkeys and ducks. Other birds are sometimes eaten are emus, ostriches, pigeons, grouse, quails, doves, woodcocks, songbirds and others.

At one time swans and flamingos were special food for the rich and powerful, like some Emperors of Rome, but people are usually not allowed to eat them now.

Many species have all died because they have been hunted for food, for example the "Passenger Pigeon". Many others are in danger or dead, because people have taken away the places where they lived for wood or farms.

Many species have learned how to get food from people. The number of birds of these species has grown because of it. Seagulls and crows find food from garbage dumps. The common pigeon , House Sparrows Passer domesticus and Common Starlings live in large numbers in towns and cities all over the world.

Sometimes people also use birds. For example homing pigeons carry messages. Nowadays people sometimes race them for sport. People also use falcons for hunting, and cormorants for fishing. Scientists often use chickens and pigeons to help find answers to their questions. In the past, people in mines often used a Canary to see if there were bad gases in the air.

People often have colorful birds such as parrots and mynahs as pets. Some of these birds are popular because they can copy human talking. Because of this, some people trap birds and take them to other countries to sell. This is not usually allowed. Most pet birds are specially bred and are sold in pet shops. 

People can catch some bird diseases, for example psittacosis, salmonellosis, campylobacteriosis, Newcastle's disease, mycobacteriosis, influenza, giardiasis, and cryptosporiadiosis. In 2005, there is an epidemic of bird influenza spreading through some parts of the world, often called avian flu.

Some people have birdboxes in their gardens to give birds a place to nest and bird tables where birds can get food and water in very cold or very dry weather.

<TITLE>Bulgaria</TITLE>
The Republic of Bulgaria is a country in South-Eastern Europe.

It was established in 681 AD. The capital and the biggest city is Sofia. The currency is the Bulgarian leva. Bulgaria is a member of the European Union and NATO. It is preparing to join the Euro zone. Therefore, Bulgaria would change over to the euro after several years. The current president is Georgi Parvanov. The population of Bulgaria is 7.8 million people.

Bulgaria's official language is Bulgarian. The Bulgarian language is a Slavic language. It is related to languages like Serbian and Russian. Bulgaria became independent in 1878 from the Ottoman Empire. Bulgaria borders Romania, Serbia, the Republic of Macedonia, Greece, Turkey, and the Black Sea. One of the national heroes of Bulgaria is Vasil Levski. His real name is Vasil Ivanov Kunchev. He was born in Karlovo in 1837.

 For 500 years, Bulgaria was ruled by the Ottoman Empire. Throughout most of the 20th century, its foreign policy was influenced by the Soviet Union. In the early 1990s, as the Soviet Union began to collapse, Bulgaria grew more independent of Soviet policy. 

Within a few years of the fall of the Berlin Wall, Bulgaria experienced serious economic problems, and the socialist government that took power after the communists fell in 1989. But since then, Bulgaria has positively rebounded. After some real economic reform and responsible money planning, the government has become more stable. Problems in the administration, a weak court system and organized crime are the biggest issues for Bulgaria.

<TITLE>Bryozoa</TITLE>
Bryozoans, or Ectoprocta, are a phylum of small aquatic animals living in colonies. The colonies usually have a skeleton of calcium carbonate. Bryozoans have a long fossil history, starting in the Ordovician. In their life-style they resemble the polyps which form coral. Bryozoa are known informally as moss animals or sea mats. They generally like warm, tropical waters but can be found all over the world. There are about 4,000 living species, and 15,000 fossil species are known. 

The colonies are formed by tiny members called zooids. These secrete tubes, usually of lime , sometimes of chitin, an organic compound. All bryozoa have a lophophore. This is a ring of ten tentacles surrounding the mouth, each tentacle covered with cilia. When feeding, the zooid extends the lophophore outwards; when resting it is withdrawn into the mouth to protect it from predators. 

 Bryozoans can reproduce both sexually and asexually. All Bryozoans, as far as is known, are hermaphrodite .

All members of a colony are clones: they are genetically identical, produced by asexual reproduction. This occurs by budding off new zooids from the first zooid. So the colony grows; this is the way a colony expands in size. If a piece of a bryozoan colony breaks off, the piece can continue to grow and will form a new colony.

All zooids in a colony are linked by strands of epithelial cells. The individual members of a colony, the zooids, are in some species generalised: they feed, and they can reproduce on occasion. But in most species the zooids are specialised to diffent functions. In this case the feeding zooids are called autozooids, and the non-feeding members are called heterozooids. Functions performed by heterozooids include sexual reproduction, protection, locomotion, plumbing, structural support. The functions of some heterozooids is still unknown. The commonest function is that eggs are developed in brooding chambers on female or hermaphrodite heterozooids. There are variations in the details: sometimes a little complex of heterozooids produce larvae in a cooperative effort.p4

Another way to describe the bryozoa which develop heterozooids is to say they are polymorphic. This term is used in biology to describe the way a genetically unified population develops into clearly distinct forms. The polymorphism is usually controlled by genetic switching mechanisms, but in bryozoa there is little knowledge of their genetics. 

Most species of Bryozoan live in marine environments. There are about 50 species which inhabit freshwater. In their aquatic habitats, bryozoans may be found on all types of hard substrates: sand grains, rocks, shells, wood, blades of kelp, pipes and ships may be heavily encrusted with bryozoans. Some bryozoan colonies, however, do not grow on solid substrates, but form colonies on sediment. While some species have been found at depths of 8,200 m, most bryozoans live in much shallower water. Most bryozoans are sessile and immobile, but a few colonies are able to creep about, and a few species of non-colonial bryozoans live and move about in the spaces between sand grains. One remarkable species makes its living while floating in the Southern Ocean. Several bryozoan species can be found in the Midwestern United States, especially in Ohio, Indiana, and Kentucky which used to be a part of a large ocean.

Their diet consists of small microorganisms, including diatoms and other unicellular algae. In turn, bryozoans are preyed on by grazing organisms such as sea urchins and fish. 

Bryozoans are almost entirely colony-forming animals. Many millions of individuals can form one colony. The colonies range from millimeters to meters in size, but the individuals that make up the colonies are tiny, usually less than a millimeter long. In each colony, different individuals have different functions. Some individuals gather up the food for the colony , others depend on them . Some individuals are devoted to strengthening the colony , and still others to cleaning the colony . There is only a single known solitary species, Monobryozoon ambulans, which does not form colonies.

Bryozoan skeletons grow in a variety of shapes and patterns: mound-shaped, lacy fans, branching twigs, and even corkscrew-shaped. Their skeletons have many tiny openings. Each opening is the home of zooid. They have a body with a U-shaped gut, opening at the mouth and at the anus. They feed with their lophophore. The tentacles of the bryozoans are ciliated. The beating of the cilia creates a current of water which drives food towards the mouth. In some groups, notably some ctenostomes, a gizzard may be formed. 

Bryozoans do not have a respiratory, or a blood system, because their small size allows diffusion of gases and nutrients. However, they do have a simple nervous system, and muscles, which together can quickly take the zooid down into its shelter.

One species of bryozoan, Bugula neritina, is of current interest as a source of chemicals, bryostatins, which are under investigation as anti-cancer agents.

Fossil bryozoans are found in rocks beginning in the early Ordovician. They were, from then on, abundant in the Palaeozoic era. They were major components of seabed communities and, like modern-day bryozoans, played an important role in sediment stabilization and binding, as well as providing sources of food for other benthic organisms. During the Lower Carboniferous 354 to 323 million years ago, bryozoans were so common that their broken skeletons form entire limestone beds. Bryozoan fossil record comprises more than 15,000 species. 

Most fossil bryozoans have mineralized skeletons. The skeletons of individual zooids vary from tubular to box-shaped and contain a terminal aperture from which the lophophore is protruded to feed. No pores are present in the great majority of Ordovician bryozoans, but skeletal evidence shows that epithelia were continuous from one zooid to the next.

Some bryozoa lack mineralized skeletons. The statoblasts of freshwater Phylactolaemates have been recorded as far back as the Permian, and the Ctenostome fossils date only from the Triassic.

One of the most important events during bryozoan evolution was the acquisition of a calcareous skeleton and the related change in the mechanism of tentacle protrusion. The rigidity of the outer body walls gave protection against predators, a greater degree of zooid contiguity, and the evolution of massive, multiserial colony forms.

<TITLE>Biennial plant</TITLE>
A biennial plant is a flowering plant that takes two years to complete its lifecycle. In the first year the plant grows leaves, stems, and roots ; then it enters a period of dormancy over the colder months. Usually, the stem remains very short and the leaves are low to the ground, forming a rosette. Many biennials require a cold treatment, before they will flower. The next spring/summer the stem of the biennial plant becomes much longer. The plant then flowers, produces fruits and seeds before it finally dies. There are far fewer biennials than either perennials or annuals.

Under extreme climatic conditions, a biennial plant may complete its lifecycle in a very short period of time . This is quite common in vegetable or flower seedlings that were exposed to cold conditions, before they were planted in the ground. This behaviour leads to many normally biennial plants being treated as annuals in some areas. Flowering can be induced in some biennials by application of the plant hormone gibberellin, but this is rarely done commercially.

From a gardener's perspective, a plant's status as annual, biennial, or perennial often varies based on location or purpose. Biennials grown for flowers, fruits, or seeds need to be grown for two years. Biennials that are grown for edible leaves or roots are grown as annuals, e.g. beets, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, carrots, celery, parsley, and Swiss chard. If a normally biennial plant is grown in extremely harsh conditions, it is likely to be treated as an annual because it will not survive the winter cold. Conversely, an annual grown under extremely favourable conditions may have highly successful seed propagation, giving it the appearance of being biennial or perennial. Some short-lived perennials may appear to be biennial rather than perennial. True biennials flower only once, while many perennials will flower every year once mature.

Examples of biennial plants are parsley, Lunaria, silverbeet, sweet William, colic weed, and carrot. The pansy is a biennial often grown as an annual. Plant breeders have produced annual cultivars of several biennials that will flower the first year from seed, e.g. foxglove, stock, and hollyhock.

Biennials may be kept alive longer than two years under environmental conditions that prevent them from flowering. Biennial sugar beet was prevented from flowering by not giving it the cold treatment required for flowering. It was kept alive in a greenhouse for 41 months.

<TITLE>Bay leaf</TITLE>
Bay leaf , is the aromatic leaf of several species of the Laurel family . Fresh or dried bay leaves are used in cooking for their distinctive flavor and fragrance. 

<TITLE>Brassicales</TITLE>
The Brassicales are an order of flowering plants. They are in the eurosids II group of dicotyledons under the APG II system.

<TITLE>Blindness</TITLE>
Blindness is the inability to see anything. Some people are called blind, even though they can see a little bit. This is because they cannot see clearly, but only see fuzzy shapes or colours. 

In modern countries, few young people are blind. In all the world, blindness is mostly caused by malnutrition and diseases of old people, like cataracts and trachoma. People can become blind because of diseases or accidents, but sometimes people are born blind.

Some people are color blind, which means they can see, but cannot tell certain colours apart. 

When people are blind they use such things as the alphabet in braille and guide dogs to do every day life things. 

Famous blind people have included Louis Braille, the inventor of the braille alphabet, Stevie Wonder, and Helen Keller. 

<TITLE>Symphony No. 9 (Beethoven)</TITLE>
Symphony no 9 in d minor op 125 by Ludwig van Beethoven is one of the most famous pieces of music ever written.

A symphony is a piece of music for orchestra. Beethoven wrote nine symphonies. This one, the last one he wrote, is very unusual because the last movement also has singing in it: there are four soloists and a choir. This is why it is known as the “choral” symphony . It is a very long work, lasting more than an hour. This, too, was unusual.

This symphony has four movements. The first movement is in sonata form. The second and third movements come the other way round from the usual order: the second movement is the scherzo and the third movement is the slow movement. It is a theme and variations. The last movement sets the words of a poem by Friedrich Schiller, a famous poet who had only recently died. The poem was called Ode an die Freude . The poem has a strong message to all mankind: it is about living in peace and harmony together. It was written at the time of the French Revolution when these ideas were becoming very important in Europe.

The main tune of the last movement is one of the best known tunes in the world. Many children like to play it on instruments because the first part of the tune only uses five notes . When the tune comes the first time in the symphony it is played by the cellos and double basses.

The Ode to Joy was adopted as Europe's “National anthem” in 1972, with an official arrangement for orchestra written by Herbert von Karajan.

Beethoven had been interested in Schiller’s famous poem since he was young. In 1817 he started to write the first two movements of the symphony. In 1822 he decided to use Schiller’s poem in the symphony. Most of the rest of the symphony was written in 1823 and he finished it in 1824. It was first performed in May of that year. Beethoven conducted the performance. The story is told that he wondered why the audience were not applauding when it had finished. They were applauding, but Beethoven was deaf so he could not hear. Someone made him turn round, and he saw that people were applauding enthusiastically.

<TITLE>Bomber</TITLE>
A bomber is a type of airplane that is used to attack ground targets, mainly by dropping bombs. The first bombers were made at the start of World War I.

Bombers usually fly low to the ground and can fly at slow speeds. Because of this, bombers are not outfitted to fight other airplanes. To make up for this, bombers have many guns. 

 Bombers in World War II had large crews, sometimes as many as 12 people. Usually a bomber had a pilot, a bombadier, a co-pilot/navigator, a nose gunner, a gunner on the bottom which could shoot forwards and back, a tail gunner, a top gunner, and a couple of side gunners.

 Bombers now have one or two people in them. The other positions have been replaced by computers. Bombers have very few guns on them partly because they are much faster. In bombing missions now, the pilot drops a bomb and leaves as quickly as possible. In the Vietnam War, bombers were made that could travel at Mach 2 or Mach 3, so a nuclear bomb could be dropped without killing the people in the airplane. This tactic was never used, obviously, but it changed the purpose of bombers.

<TITLE>Cue sports</TITLE>
Cue sports are games played with balls on a cloth-covered table that has rubber railings around it to keep the balls on the table. Two or more people use sticks to make one ball hit other balls. In the past, all cue sports were called billiards, but that term has various different meanings in different areas. 

<TITLE>Bursa</TITLE>
Bursa is a city innorthwestern Turkey and the seat of the Bursa provience.The population of city is about 2 million. Bursa is the fourth largest city,and also one of the most industrializated city in the country.Sometimes the city calls "Yeşil Bursa" which means "Green Bursa" because of the large parks, forests and gardens in the urban area of the city.Bursa is home of Uludağ University. Uludağ is an important ski resort in Turkey.The city has a national park in Uludağ to protect the nature life in the mountinous area.

<TITLE>The Bahamas</TITLE>
The Commonwealth of The Bahamas is a group of islands in the West Indies. The country's capital, Nassau, is on New Providence Island.

The Taino were the first people living there. In 1492, Christopher Columbus found the Americas by landing on another of the islands, San Salvador.

The islands' mostly black population speaks English, the country's main language.

The Bahamas are a popular place for people to visit for holidays, the 700 islands and cays attract a large number of visitors from nearby America, as well as Europe and other countries.

 Nearly 500,000 people live in the Bahamas. The ethnic groups of the population is: 82.1% African descent 15.4% Mixed 1.5% Asian and other.

<TITLE>Baker Island</TITLE>
Baker Island is a small coral island, or atoll, in the North Pacific Ocean. It is just above of the equator. It belongs of the United States. The United States Department of the Interior is in charge of the island, which is currently called the Baker Island National Wildlife Refuge. No people can live on the island because it is for animals only. 

The island has no trees. The island is surrounded by a coral reef, which makes the atoll hard to approach in a boat.

<TITLE>Bangladesh</TITLE>
Bangladesh is a country in South Asia, located next to the North-east Indian provincial regions of India, which converges with Southeast Asia to the east. Its full name is The People's Republic of Bangla-Desh. The capital and the largest city is Dhaka . Bangladesh is surrounded on all three sides by the Republic of India , and is in close proximity to the People's Republic of China, Bhutan, Sikkim and Nepal. It's independence was fully realised after it declared it self as independent most of 1971 from Pakistan after a bloody war in which over a million people died. Later by Indian military intervention, by that time the provisional government went into exile in Calcutta, Bengal which they considered their homeland to be under Pakistani military occupation. After the Instrument of Surrender, the Bengali peoples became a sovereign nation and when it's founder was released from political imprisonment had returned in 1972. Present-day Bangladesh has an area of 55,126 mi² or . It is bigger than Tajikistan but smaller than Nepal. 

The local currency is called Taka. The official language is Bengali.

There are two main rivers in Bangladesh, the Ganga River and the Brahmaputra rivers are holy to Hindus. There are often floods because of these two rivers. 

Bangladesh used to be called East Bengal, after they had fought hard for a Muslim homeland in 1947 and was made a part of United Pakistan, However by 1955 it's citizens were commonly refered to as East Pakistanis. Dacca was then the legislative capital of Pakistani Bengal provincial region. The peoples of East Pakistan were mostly ethnic Bengalis who had a different language and culture to the people of western Pakistani. These differences eventually led to Civil war. On 16 December 1971, Bangladesh gained independence, with the help of allied forces against West Pakistani forces. 

Following the birth of Bangladesh, Bangla replaced Urdu and English as the sole national and official language, and was the language taught in schools and used in business and government. The Bangla Academy was important in this change. In the 1980s, British-style education was maintained through private English-language institutions attended by upper class children. English continued to be taught in higher education and was offered as a subject for university degrees. 

At first, Arabic also lost ground in independent Bangladesh. This trend ended in the late 1970s, however, after Bangladesh strengthened its ties with Saudi Arabia and other oil-rich, Arabic-speaking countries. An unsuccessful attempt was made in 1983 to introduce Arabic as a required language in primary and secondary levels. Arabic is widely studied in Madrassas and Islamic institutions around the country for better understanding of the Quran, Hadith and any other Islamic texts.

 Despite 30 years of independence, Bangladesh is still a very poor country and has problems with corruption and political troubles. Less than half of the people can read and write.

Bangladesh has heavy cyclones and natural disasters, which because the country is one of the most densely populated in the world, many lives are often lost. Cyclones are very common in the Bay of Bengal during the middle of the year, particularly in the south of country in areas like Sundarban, Chittagong, Cox's Bazaar or in neighboring Myanmar and Republic of India. Despite the many storms, Bangladesh does not have a very effective storm prevention system, and cyclones usually inflict heavy damage.

<TITLE>Barbados</TITLE>
Barbados is an island country in the Caribbean Sea. The island has an area of about 430 km². Its capital is Bridgetown. The official language of Barbados is English. Barbados is a popular tourist destination. The island has a population of about 276 607 people .

 The population of Barbados is about 300,000 people, nearly 80% of that is predominatley of African descent, 16% are mulatto and 4% other. There is also a East Indian minority on the island and chinese and other ethnic groups.

<TITLE>Belarus</TITLE>
Belarus is a country in eastern Europe. About nine million people live there. Its capital is Minsk. It was part of the Soviet Union until 1991. The official languages are Belarusian and Russian. The president of Belarus is Alexander Lukashenko. It is bordered by Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Lithuania and Latvia. 

	 The State is a member of the UN, the CIS Collective Security Treaty Organization, the Eurasian Economic Community, the Union State of Russia and Belarus , as well as a member of other international organizations.

<TITLE>Belize</TITLE>
Belize is a country in Central America. People in Belize speak English or Creole, instead of Spanish, which is what the people in the countries around it speak. This is because Belize was a former colony of Great Britain, while its neighbors were colonies of Spain. It was formerly called British Honduras.

Over two hundred and sixty thousand people live in Belize. Belmopan, which is located in the centre of the country, is its capital.

<TITLE>Benin</TITLE>
Benin is a country in Africa. It used to be called Dahomey and was a colony of France. The Fon people who live here are closely related to the people of Haiti.

<TITLE>Bermuda</TITLE>
Bermuda is about 130 islands in the Atlantic Ocean of the east coast of North America that are ruled by Great Britain. Bermuda is a popular tourist place.

