<titl>anarch</titl>
anarch is the anti-authoritarian polit belief that peopl can organ themselv without have a state or a govern in power. anarchist also believ that particip should never be forc by other peopl.

anarch is "a cluster of doctrin and attitud center on the belief that govern is both harm and unnecessari." the term "anarch" deriv from the greek αναρχία . 

in the common languag, the word anarchi is often us to describ chao or anomi. howev, anarchist do not promot thi. rather, thei defin "anarchi" as a wai of relat between peopl. onc put into place these relat work on their own.

 individu freedom, voluntari associ and opposit to the state, ar import belief of anarch. there ar also big differ between anarchist philosophi on thing like whether violenc can be us to bring anarchi; the best type of economi; the relationship between technolog and hierarchi; the idea of equal; and the us of some organ. 

there ar mani anarchist who reject capit and support social , thei ar call anarcho-socialist and individu socialist. also, there ar some anarchist call anarcho-capitalist who oppos govern, but support capit and reject social. final, there ar "anarchist without border" who hold that becaus peopl will be free in an anarchi to pursu voluntarili ani econom structur thei want , the debat between anarcho-socialist and anarcho-capitalist is ultim a silli divers.

<titl>autism</titl>
autism is an emot disord character by a profound withdraw from contact with peopl, repetit behavior, and fear of chang in the environ. the emot disord is impact the brain's abil to receiv and process inform. peopl who have autism find it difficult to act in a wai that other peopl think is "normal". thei find it difficult to talk to other peopl, to look at other peopl and often do not like be touch by other peopl. a person who ha autism seem to be turn inward. thei mai talk onli to themselv, rock themselv backward and forward, and laugh at their own thought. thei do not like ani type of chang and mai find it veri difficult to learn a new behavior like us a toilet or go to school. 

autism is caus by the wai that the brain develop, both befor and after a babi is born. autism is a "spectrum disord". thi mean that some peopl who have autism ar onli mildli affect. these peopl mai go to regular school, go to work, and have partner and famili. mild autism is call asperg syndrom or "high function autism". some peopl ar more badli affect. these peopl mai be abl to take care of most of their own need at home like dress and get food, but not be abl to have a regular job or travel alon. a person who ha sever autism mai need to be care for all their life. 

autism seem to run in famili. parent with an autist spectrum disord often have children with asperg syndrom or with more sever autism. sometim peopl who have autism ar extraordinarili gift or talent. these peopl ar said to have savant syndrom. thei ar often veri good at just on thing in particular, like mathemat, plai the piano or rememb footbal score. 

the preval of autism is about 1-2 peopl of everi 1,000.

a normal babi without autism will usual look at peopl talk, look at other peopl's face, smile, and be interest in other peopl. autist babi, though, mai like object more than face and other peopl. thei mai look for a second at a face, but quickli turn. thei mai not smile, or mai just smile at what thei're interest in.

autist children mai usual like to be by themselv, without other peopl around. thei mai not be interest in make friend. thei mai also not react normal to hug and other sign of love by their parent. thi doe not mean that thei do not love their parent, thei just do not know how to sai it.

thei mai also not see other peopl's feel; for exampl, thei might not see much differ between whether a parent is smile or be sad. thei mai laugh and cry at the wrong time.

 an autist child might not try to talk, point, or otherwis try to get a messag across by 1 year of ag. some don't understand their languag at all. some autist peopl do not speak. mani ar not good at talk with other peopl.

 some autist peopl spend a lot of time do the same thing over and over again, or be interest in unusu thing; some might spend a lot of time wave their arm around, walk on their toe, or put thing in order. an autist person might spend a huge amount of time put toi in line or pattern and mai get angri if someon bump someth out of place.

some do not want ani chang, and will do exactli the same thing everi dai without chang—such as what thei eat, when thei eat, get dress, brush their teeth, or go to school—and mai even get upset if ani chang take place to thi. thei mai also be interest in strang thing and mai spend all of their time learn about their interest.

 autism wa first name in 1943. leo kanner did a studi of 11 children and found unusu thing about them. he call it earli infantil autism. around the same time, anoth doctor, han asperg, did anoth studi on nearli the same thing. hi discoveri is now call asperg syndrom, while leo kanner's discoveri is call autist disord, childhood autism, infantil autism, or simpli autism.

<titl>albedo</titl>
the albedo of an object is the extent to which it reflect light, defin as the ratio of reflect to incid electromagnet radiat. it is a unitless measur indic of a surfac's or bodi's diffus reflect. the word is deriv from albu, a latin word for "white".

<titl>a</titl>
a is the first letter of the english alphabet. a is a usual symbol for a low central vowel, as in "father"; the english long a is pronounc as a diphthong of ĕ and y. the correspond letter of the greek alphabet is name alpha. alpha and omega, the last letter of the greek alphabet, symbol the begin and the end. in music notat the letter a is the symbol of a note in the scale, below b and abov g.

<titl>alabama</titl>
alabama is a state in the unit state. it capit citi is montgomeri. the largest citi is birmingham. it becam a state in 1819.

alabama is the thirtieth largest state in the unit state with 52,423 squar mile of total area. also 3.19% of the area is water, make alabama twenti-third in the amount of surfac water, also give it the second largest inland waterwai system in the unit state. about three-fifth of the land area is a plain with a gener downward toward the mississippi river and the gulf of mexico. the north alabama place ha mostli mountain, with the tennesse river cut a larg vallei creat mani creek, stream, river, mountain, and lake.

the state border alabama ar tennesse to the north; georgia to the east; florida to the south; and mississippi to the west. alabama ha coastlin at the gulf of mexico, in the veri southern edg of the state. alabama rang in elev from sea level at "mobil bai" to over 1,800 feet in the appalachian mountain in the northeast. the highest point is "mount cheaha", at a height of 2,407 ft . alabama's land ha 22 million acr of forest or 67% of total land area. "suburban baldwin counti", along the gulf coast, is the largest counti in the state in both land area and water area.

 the state is classifi as subtrop cfa under the koppen climat classif. the normal annual temperatur is 64 °f . temperatur ar most of the time to be warmer in the southern part of the state with it close proxim to the gulf of mexico, while the northern part of the state, mostli in the appalachian mountain in the northeast, tend to be slightli cooler. most of the time, alabama ha veri hot summer and mild winter with copiou rain throughout the year. alabama receiv an averag of 56 inch of rainfal annual and enjoi a lengthi grow season of up to 300 dai in the southern part of the state.

summer in alabama ar among the hottest in the unit state, with high temperatur averag over 90 °f throughout the summer in some part of the state. alabama also get mani to tropic storm and even hurrican. area of the state far awai from the gulf ar not immun to the effect of the storm, which often dump big amount of rain as thei move inland and weaken.

the unit state censu bureau, as of juli 1, 2008, estim alabama's popul at 4,661,900, which is an increas of 214,545, or 4.8%, sinc the last censu in 2000. thi ha a natur increas sinc the last censu of 121,054 peopl and an increas becaus of net migrat of 104,991 peopl into the state. immigr from outsid the unit state result in a net increas of 31,180 peopl, and migrat within the countri got a net gain of 73,811 peopl. the state had 108,000 foreign-born , of which an estim 22.2% were illeg immigr .

 the unit state bureau of econom analysi, the 2008 total gross state product wa $170 billion, or $29,411 per capita. alabama's 2008 gdp increas 0.7% from the past year. the singl largest increas came in the area of inform. in 1999, per capita incom for the state wa $18,189.

alabama's agricultur output ar poultri and egg, cattl, plant nurseri item, peanut, cotton, grain such as corn and sorghum, veget, milk, soybean, and peach. although known as "the cotton state", alabama is between eight and ten in nation cotton make, accord to mani report, with texa, georgia and mississippi make up the top three.

alabama's compani output ar iron and steel product ; paper, lumber, and wood thing; mine ; plastic thing; car and truck; and apparel. alabama also make aerospac and electron thing, mostli in the "huntsvil" area, locat of nasa georg c. marshal space flight center and the us armi aviat and missil command, headquart at "redston arsen."

 "public primari and secondari educ" in alabama is under the review of the alabama state board of educ as well as local oversight by 67 counti school board and 60 citi board of educ. togeth, 1,541 separ school have educ for 743,364 elementari and secondari student.

 alabama's program of higher educ ar 14 four-year public univers, two-year commun colleg, and 17 privat, undergradu and graduat univers. in the state ar two medic school, univers of alabama at birmingham and univers of south alabama, two veterinari colleg, auburn univers and tuskege univers, a dental school, univers of alabama at birmingham, an optometri colleg, univers of alabama at birmingham, two pharmaci school, auburn univers and samford univers, and five law school, univers of alabama school of law, birmingham school of law, cumberland school of law, mile law school, and the thoma good jone school of law. public, post-secondari educ in alabama is overseen by the alabama commiss on higher educ. colleg and univers in alabama offer degre program from two-year associ degre to 16 doctor level program.

 the governor of alabama is bob rilei, a republican. the lieuten governor of alabama is jim folsom jr., a democrat, and the chief justic of the alabama suprem court is sue bell cobb, a democrat.

<titl>achil</titl>
achil wa a hero in greek mytholog. he wa an import person in the trojan war, and in homer's iliad. achil wa the son of peleu and the nereid theti. he had a son name neoptolemu with deidamea.

 achil could not be hurt. in some version of the myth, theti, hi mother, dip him into the river styx, hold the babi by hi heel. becaus of that, hi heel wa still vulner. howev, the iliad doe not sai thi.

in the trojan war, achil wa the best greek warrior-hero. he kill hector, but wa kill by pari, who shot hi heel with a poison arrow. he wa veri angri. he curs at pari but pari fled.

<titl>abraham lincoln</titl>
abraham lincoln wa the 16th presid of the unit state. he serv as presid from 1861 to 1865, dure the american civil war. after mani confeder forc had alreadi surrend and the war wa end, john wilk booth assassin lincoln. booth wa hope to ralli the remain confeder troop to keep fight. lincoln ha been rememb as the "great emancip" becaus he work to end slaveri in the unit state.

 abraham lincoln wa born on februari 12, 1809, in hardin counti , kentucki. hi parent were thoma lincoln, a farmer, and nanci hank. hi famili wa poor. abraham had on brother and on sister. hi brother di in childhood. thei grew up in a small log cabin hous, with just on room insid. although slaveri wa legal in kentucki at that time, lincoln's father, who wa a religi baptist, to own ani slave. when lincoln wa seven year old, hi famili move to indiana, and later to illinoi. in hi childhood he help hi father on the farm, but when he wa 22 year old he left home and move to new salem, illinoi, where he work in a gener store. later, he said that he had gone to school for just on year, but that wa enough to learn how to read, write, and do simpl math. in 1842, he marri mari todd lincoln. thei had four children, but three of them di when thei were veri young. abraham lincoln wa sometim call ab lincoln and nicknam "honest ab", becaus he wa fair and told the truth. he ha also been call the "great emancip" becaus of hi work end slaveri in the unit state. in 1863, he declar that all slave held in the rebelli confeder state were free. he also sponsor the thirteenth amend. ratifi in 1865, nine month after hi assassin, that amend complet outlaw slaveri in the unit state.

 lincoln start hi polit career in 1832 when he ran for the illinoi gener assembl, but he lost the elect. he serv as captain in the armi dure the black hawk war, a war with nativ american tribe. when he move to springfield in 1837, he began to work as a lawyer. soon, he becam on of the most highli respect lawyer in illinoi. in 1837, as a member of the illinoi gener assembl, lincoln issu a written protest of it passag of a resolut state that slaveri could not be abolish in washington, d.c. in 1841, he won a court case , repres a black woman who claim she had alreadi been freed and could not be sold as a slave. in 1847, he lost a case repres a slave owner claim return of fugit slave.

in 1846, lincoln join the whig parti and wa elect to on term in the hous of repres. after that, he ignor hi polit career and instead becam a veri good railroad lawyer. twelv year later, he want to becom senat; although thi wa unsuccess, the debat drew nation attent to him. the republican parti nomin him for the presidenti elect of 1860.

 lincoln wa chosen as a for the elect in 1860 for differ reason. among these reason were that hi view on slaveri were less extrem than those of other peopl who want to be candid. lincoln wa from what wa then on of the western state, and had a bigger chanc of win the elect there. other candid that were older or more than him had enemi insid the parti. lincoln's famili wa poor, which ad to the republican posit of free labor, the opposit of slave labor. lincoln won the elect in 1860, and wa made the 16th presid of the unit state. he won with almost no vote in the south. for the first time, a presid had won the elect becaus of the larg support he got from the state in the north. 

 after lincoln's elect, seven state form the confeder state of america, which led to the american civil war. later, four more state join the confederaci for a total of eleven. in hi whole period as presid, he had to rebuild the union with militari forc and mani bloodi battl. he also had to stop the "border state", like kentucki, missouri, and maryland, from leav the union and join the confederaci.

lincoln wa not a gener, and had onli been in the armi for a short time dure the black hawk war. howev, he still took a major role in the war, often spend dai and dai in the war depart. hi plan wa to cut off the south by surround it with ship, control the mississippi river, and take richmond, the confeder capit. he often clash with gener in the field, especi georg b. mcclellan, and fire gener who lost battl or weren't enough. eventu, he made ulyss s. grant the top gener in the armi.

 with the emancip proclam on januari 1, 1863, lincoln order the freedom of all slave in those state still in rebellion dure the american civil war. it did not actual immedi free all those slave howev, sinc those area were still control by the rebel state of the confederaci. onli a small number of slave alreadi behind union line were immedi freed. as the union armi advanc, nearli all four million slave were effect freed. some former slave join the union armi. the proclam also did not free slave in the slave state that had remain loyal to the union . neither did it appli to area where union forc had alreadi regain control. until the thirteenth amend to the u.s. constitut in 1865, onli the state had power to end slaveri within their own border, so lincoln issu the proclam as a war measur. 

the proclam made free the slave a union goal for the war, and put an end to movement in european nation that would have recogn the confederaci as an independ nation. lincoln then sponsor a constitut amend to free all slave. the thirteenth amend, make slaveri illeg everywher in the unit state, wa pass late in 1865, eight month after lincoln wa assassin.

lincoln made a famou speech after the battl of gettysburg in 1863 call the gettysburg address. the battl wa veri import, and mani soldier from both side di. the speech wa given when thei built the cemeteri for the dead soldier. it is on of the most famou speech in american histori.

 lincoln wa reelect presid in 1864. he propos law to make the nation becom on again quickli. while attend a plai at ford's theatr in washington, d.c., lincoln wa shot and kill by john wilk booth. he wa the first american presid to be assassin.

<titl>aristotl</titl>
aristotl wa a greek philosoph. he wa on of the most import philosoph in the histori of western civilis. it is said that aristotl wrote around 150 philosoph book, but onli a much smaller number surviv. aristotl wa the boyhood tutor of alexand the great, who later sent him plant and anim from part of hi new empir. 

 aristotl's father nicomachu, wa the doctor of king amynta of macedonia. from hi eighteenth to hi thirti-seventh year, aristotl live in athen, as a metic and student of plato.

the three greatest ancient greek philosoph were aristotl, plato, and socrat. socrat taught plato, then plato taught aristotl. these three thinker turn earli greek philosophi into the begin of western philosophi as it is todai. aristotl taught alexand the great, who later conquer the entir middl east.

plato's main idea were that knowledg from the sens wa alwai confus and not pure. true knowledg can be gotten from the think soul that turn awai from the world. onli the soul can have knowledg of "form", the real wai thing ar. the world is onli a copi of these "form" and is not perfect.

aristotl thought differ. he thought that knowledg from the sens wa more import. these thought becam some of the root of the scientif method after hundr of year. most of the thing aristotl wrote that we still have todai ar note from hi speak and teach. some of hi import write ar physic, metaphys, ethic, polit, de anima , and poetic.

he also had problem with the atom theori. he did not believ in democritu' theori about the atom theori. he believ that all matter wa continu wherea democritu state the all matter wa made up of tini indivis thing call "atom". democritu wa prove right by physicist john dalton in 1804.

 aristotl also wrote about logic. aristotl is the father of logic. logic is a type of thought that allow us to decid whether an idea is true or fals. still todai, aristotl's idea on logic had the most influenc across the wide world.

 the histori of the work of aristotl from the time he wa born until the 1st centuri bc is not well known. legend sai that aristotl's collect of write wa left to theophrastu. theophrastu wa aristotl's successor. theophrastu hid the thing aristotl wrote to keep them from be taken awai or destroi. thei were found again in the year 70 bc.

<titl>academi award</titl>
the academi award, commonli known as the oscar, ar the best-known movi award in the unit state. the award have been given by the academi of motion pictur art and scienc sinc 1929. right now, the award ceremoni take place in januari at the kodak theater in hollywood.

<titl>ayn rand</titl>
ayn rand wa a russian-born american writer, screenwrit, playwright and philosoph who publish sever popular book in the unit state in the mid-1900s, such as we the live, anthem, atla shrug and the fountainhead. her husband wa an american actor and artist, name frank o'connor.

 rand grew up dure the russian revolut, in the year after world war i. she left russia to visit rel in chicago in the unit state when she wa 21 year old. she did not want to return to live under commun, and stai in the us. she chang her name partli to protect her famili, back in russia. rand move to california to becom a movi writer. movi at the time did not have sound, and stori were pantomim on camera. wa not import, so rand could write simpl stori while she improv her english languag skill.

rand met her husband, frank o'connor, on a movi set, when thei both appear as s. when o'connor marri rand, she could live perman in america. she later becam an american citizen. o'connor gave up hi act career, to work full-time so rand could write full-time. later he retir, when rand's work made a good incom. he began paint late in hi life.

rand's first book wa we the live. it is about life in russia dure and after the revolut, and how life in the later soviet union destroi the dream and hope of it main charact, who ar mostli young peopl.

her second book wa anthem, which is a scienc fiction novella about a man name equal 7-2521 who live in the futur, in a societi where everybodi is given their name by the govern, and nobodi can us the word "i" or "me". he escap from thi societi with a partner, to live freeli in a hous in a hidden place.

her stage plai woman on trial us audienc member as a juri, to decid the plai's each time it wa perform. some celebr, like helen keller, appear as juri member.

her third novel wa the fountainhead. it is about an architect, who want to have control over hi build design, and doe not like when he ha to compromis hi build design. the fountainhead becam a bestsel, and wa made into a movi star gari cooper and patricia neal.

her fourth novel wa atla shrug. it is her longest book. it wa also a best-seller. it tell a stori about a worldwid econom crisi, caus by the best mind in busi, industri, and scienc, and after a while all intellectu peopl, quit their job and disappear, to protest govern regul that get in the wai of their work or make it harder. the more govern get in the wai, the wors condit becom, until societi collaps. a new futur begin when the peopl who disappear return, and govern adopt laissez-fair principl, that do not try to control how busi work, or misus s.

after atla shrug she wrote non-fiction book about her objectivist idea. she publish the objectivist newslett, which then becam the objectivist magazin, with s by other writer. she also publish the ayn rand letter, a later newslett about her idea.

rand wa a longtim tobacco , and it led to later health problem. she di in 1982 of cardiovascular diseas .

 rand invent a philosophi that she call objectiv. she wa against commun, social, and collectiv, which ar polit system where a commun or the govern of a countri take charg of distribut of that countri's good and product.

she also thought that countri should have veri small govern. ayn rand did not think that welfar payment to poor peopl were a good thing, becaus thi involv us forc to take monei awai from other. she believ that chariti could be a good thing if the person give the monei want and chose to do it, but she did not think that peopl should be expect or forc to give awai their monei.

she wa also against religion, and wa an atheist .

<titl>algeria</titl>
algeria is a countri in the western part of north africa. the capit citi is algier.it is the second largest countri on the african contin.

 offici languag ar arab and berber. french is wide spoken too. algeria's popul is about 35 million.

<titl>anthropolog</titl>
anthropolog is the studi of human be. . anthropolog is a biolog and histor social scienc that help us learn how group of peopl ar the same, and how thei ar differ in all part of the world. anthropologist do research in mani place and studi how peopl live now and how thei mai have live in the past . thei research in modern citi, small villag, tribe, and in the countrysid. thei studi how group of peopl consid time, space, life, etc.

appli anthropolog is a type of anthropolog that us inform discov us scienc to help peopl. on recent us of appli anthropolog is the return of ancient wai of success farm to peopl live in south america. anoth us of appli anthropolog is the learn of languag close to dy out and the teach of young peopl the languag of their ancestor.

most peopl who studi anthropolog have some schoolwork in all four big kind of anthropolog but later studi on or two area primarili.

<titl>alchemi</titl>
alchemi is a studi of the basic element call fire, water, earth and air. it is the studi of transmut. it wa first studi to learn how to chang lead into gold. it is similar to chemistri, but much older. peopl who studi alchemi were call alchemist.

alchemist in the middl ag often tri to make gold us thing that were not gold. thei also tri to make the elixir of life . mani time alchemist would us stori and legend to try to veil how to make gold. the psychologist carl gustav jung wa interest in thi as well but in relat to the soul of man. alchemist ar object while psychologist ar subject . alchemist deal with the first matter while psycholog deal with the mind. a famou sai in alchemi: "as abov, so below" veil the relationship exist between alchemi and psycholog. 

alchemi is not a scienc ani more. some thing that the alchemist learn about were import for other scienc, like chemistri.

in 1980, an american scientist name glenn seaborg actual chang a veri tini amount of bismuth into gold with a nuclear reactor. but it cost much more to transform the energi to do thi than the tini amount of gold wa worth. thi is the closest a scientist ha come to discov the philosoph's stone of the ancient alchemist. the philosoph's stone is the mean alchemist us to achiev transmut. 

alchemi wa an import scienc becaus it help creat mani other scienc that came after it, for exampl, chemistri, physic, biologi, and astronomi. alchemist not onli tri to creat gold but thei also look for self-purif and enlighten.

<titl>austria</titl>
austria , offici "republ of austria", is a countri in central europ. around austria there ar germani, czech republ, slovakia, hungari, slovenia, itali, switzerland, and liechtenstein. current, the chancellor is werner faymann. austria ha been a member-state of the eu sinc 1995.

the peopl in austria speak german, a few also hungarian, slovenian and croatian. the capit of austria is vienna . 

austria is more than a thousand year old. it histori can be follow to the ninth centuri. at that time the first peopl move to the land now known as austria. the name "ostarrichi" is first written in an offici document from 996. sinc then thi word ha develop into the modern german word österreich.

austria is a democrat state and ha nine feder state : vorarlberg, the tyrol, salzburg, carinthia, styria, upper austria, lower austria, vienna and burgenland. it is a neutral state, that mean it doe not take part in war with other countri. austria is in the unit nation sinc 1955 and in the european union sinc 1995.

 there ha been human settlement in the area that is now austria for a long time. the first settler go back to the paleolith ag. that wa the time of the neanderth. thei left work of art such as the venu of willendorf. in the neolith ag peopl were live there to dig for miner resourc, especi copper. ötzi, a mummi found in a glacier between austria and itali, is from that time. in the bronz ag peopl built bigger settlement and fortress, especi where there were miner resourc. salt mine began near hallstatt. at that time, celt began to form the first state.

 the roman settl in most of modern austria. thei built larger citi. the most import of these were carnuntum , virunum and teurnia . 

 austria wa an empir from about 800 to 1918. and wa rule by the hous of habsburg for most of that period. then it becam a republ. the first republ wa from 1918 to 1938, the second republ ha been from 1945. from 1938 to 1945 austria wa part of germani.

austria is a larg mountain countri sinc it is in the alp. the high mountain alp in the west of austria flatten somewhat into low land and plain in the east of the countri.

 mani famou compos were austrian or born in austria. there ar wolfgang amadeu mozart, joseph haydn, franz schubert, anton bruckner, johann strauss, sr., johann strauss, jr. and gustav mahler. in modern time there were arnold schoenberg, anton webern and alban berg, who belong to the second viennes school .

austria ha mani artist, there ar gustav klimt, oskar kokoschka, egon schiel or friedensreich hundertwass, ing morath or otto wagner and scienc.

 famou austrian dish ar wiener schnitzel, apfelstrudel, schweinsbraten, kaiserschmarren, knödel, sachertort and tafelspitz.

<titl>astronom</titl>
an astronom is a person who studi astronomi. most astronom work in observatori with telescop to collect inform from star, planet, or galaxi. an astronom ha to analys inform s/he ha collect, and to us it to help us understand how the univers behav.

<titl>ascii</titl>
ascii is a binari code us by comput, commun equip, and other devic to handl text us the english alphabet. ascii is an abbrevi for american standard code for inform interchang. 

ascii wa develop in the 1960s and wa base on earlier code us by telegraph system.

ascii includ definit for 128 charact: most of these ar the printabl charact of the alphabet such as abc, abc, 123, and ?&!. the rest of the charact within the code do not actual print but instead control how text is process, for exampl line end.

ascii us 7 binari digit to repres charact: 1000001 repres the upper-case letter a; 1000010 repres b; 1000011 repres c; and so on in sequenc.

the name ascii is often us for binari code that us all valu in a full byte . it is not realli correct to call them ascii, sinc ascii is onli the method describ here abov. often thei ar call extend ascii. such binari code can have definit for 256 charact. the first 128 charact must be the same as for ascii and the rest ar usual us for alphabet letter with accent, for exampl like é, è, î and ü. such charact ar need to correctli write languag other than english, for exampl french, german and swedish.

<titl>anim</titl>
anim is a wai of make a movi from mani still imag. the imag ar put togeth on after anoth, and then plai at a fast speed to give the illus of movement. most anim ar plai at a speed of twenti-four to sixti imag per second. each imag becom on frame of the movi. 

a person who make anim is call an anim. 

 becaus it is expens to make, most anim come from profession compani. howev, independ anim have exist sinc the 1950s in america, with mani of those peopl enter the profession industri. in europ, the independ movement ha exist sinc the 1910s, with anim like pre-revolutionari russia's ladisla starevich and germani's lott reinig.

on the internet, mani peopl us a comput program call flash to creat anim. flash us a combin of draw and comput graphic to make anim. mani anim on the internet ar made in flash. most anim on the internet do not work for profession compani.

on televis, limit anim is us a lot. it is us by popular compani such as upa and hanna-barbera product. simpl, limit movement make the imag easier to draw, which lower the cost of make anim and make the product of anim faster.

<titl>apollo</titl>
apollon or apollo is a god in greek mytholog, and on of the twelv olympian. he is the son of zeu and leto and the twin brother of artemi.

he wa the god of heal and medicin, and of music and poetri. he wa the leader of the muse. he also wa a god of propheci, and hi oracl at delphi wa veri import. he also wa a god of reveng and justic. dure the 5th centuri bc, apollo becam also known as the god of the sun, becom on with the god helio, and get the name phoebu.

he is shown as a young man, wear a laurel wreath and plai the kithara .

<titl>andr agassi</titl>
andr kirk agassi is a retir profession tenni player from the unit state. he is the onli tenni player to have won all grand slam tournament on four differ surfac. he is on of the most success tenni player in histori and wa formerli rank number 1 in the world. he is marri to former women's number on tenni player steffi graf. 

<titl>andorra</titl>
andorra is a european countri between spain and franc. there ar about 70,000 peopl live in the countri. the capit is andorra la vella. it is rule by a spanish bishop and the french presid. andorra's govern is a parliamentari democraci.

<titl>american footbal confer</titl>
the american footbal confer is on of the two confer of the nation footbal leagu , the other be the nation footbal confer . everi year, the winner of the afc championship game receiv the lamar hunt trophi and get to plai against the winner of the nfc championship game in the super bowl. as of 2010, the pittsburgh steeler, who have won the afc championship game seven time, have won the most afc championship game.

<titl>anim farm</titl>
anim farm is a book by georg orwel. the stori is a modern fabl and allegori. the stori is about a group of anim who throw out the human from the farm thei live on and run it themselv. what start out well turn into a brutal tyranni on it own. it wa written dure world war ii and publish in 1945. the book wa not wide success until the late 1950s.

anim farm is a critiqu and satir of soviet totalitarian. mani event in the book ar base on event from the soviet union dure the stalin era. orwel wa a critic of stalin, and suspici of moscow-direct stalin after hi experi in the spanish civil war. 

 there ar mani charact in the book who ar base on real peopl. thei ar group into pig, hors, human and other anim. 

 anim is a system of belief share by the farm anim of manor farm. the purpos is to ensur the farm anim behav like actual anim and not follow the footstep of human be. therefor, ani human behavior is consid contrari to the spirit of anim.

 in the stori, thi song wa sung by anim of england onc upon a time. it is name "beast of england", with a stir tune, a cross between clementin and cucuracha. thi song becam popular among the anim of england after old major recit it to the farm anim of manor farm. it serv as the 1st nation anthem of anim farm.

 these ar the origin command laid down by the pig.

 "four leg good, two leg bad."

<titl>amphibian</titl>
amphibian ar a group of tetrapod anim. thei form the class amphibia . thei live in shallow water and on land, and must lai their egg in water. thei have a larval stage in water, and the adult stage usual live mostli on land. 

earli amphibia, from the carbonifer, were quit larg predat with flat skull. the amphibia which surviv todai ar much smaller, and more specialis, form. frog, toad, newt, salamand and caecilian ar all amphibian. 

as amphibia grow from a larva to an adult, thei chang shape. thi is metamorphosi. thei lose their gill and tail, and grow front and hind leg. larval frog, toad, or salamand ar call tadpol. adult femal lai as mani as 1000 egg, usual in the water or in wet place. thei eat other anim, especi insect. amphibian ar cold blood, wich mean that their bodi temperatur doesn't adapt to the weather.

there ar about 5,700 live speci of amphibian.

<titl>alaska</titl>
the state of alaska is on of the state of the unit state. it is on of two state that doe not touch anoth state. the other is hawaii. it wa purchas from imperi russia in 1867 for $7.2 million.

 the capit citi is juneau, but the biggest citi is anchorag. alaska is the biggest state in the unit state, but it almost ha the least peopl. alaska ha almost 20% of all the land in the u.s., but onli about 0.2% of the peopl. it is not connect to ani other state by american land, but it is connect to canada.

alaska ha mani glacier, some of which ar pass by or land on by cruis or nation park. some ar coastal, and other ar not by the ocean. it is a popular tourist destin, as there is a veri rich cultur along with beauti sceneri.

there ar some import industri in alaska, like oil, fish, mine, and forestri. oil is the biggest industri in alaska. most of the oil is veri far north in the alaskan arctic. a veri long pipelin start at the northern coast of alaska and run to the southern coast. it is over 800 mile long. there were mani gold rush in alaska.

<titl>aldou huxlei</titl>
aldou leonard huxlei wa a british writer of the first half of the 20th centuri. he wrote a great number of book, on variou theme. most of hi book ar either highli philosoph, or thei try to critic modern scienc. aldou huxlei is probabl best known for hi book brave new world. in the book, which wa written in 1932, he show what can go wrong with genet engin. he write about a world in the far futur, where the whole social hierarchi is base on genet trait, and not on the person effort of the individu peopl to learn and improv themselv. such a posit is often call eugen. 

<titl>alga</titl>
alga is the name for certain plant-like live thing that can make food from sunlight . the studi of alga is call phycolog or algolog.

 alga ar a larg and divers group of simpl, typic autotroph organ, rang from unicellular to multicellular form. the largest and most complex marin form ar call seawe. thei ar photosynthet, like plant, and "simpl" becaus thei lack the mani distinct organ found in land plant. for that reason thei ar not classifi as plant.

though the prokaryot cyanobacteria were includ as "alga" in older textbook, thi is outdat. the term alga is now us for eukaryot organ. all true alga therefor have a nucleu enclos within a membran and chloroplast bound in on or more membran. howev, alga ar definit not a monophylet group, as thei do not all descend from a common algal ancestor. modern taxonomist propos split them up into monophylet group, but there is at present no consensu as to the detail.

alga lack the variou structur that character land plant, such as leav, root, and other organ that ar found in plant. nearli all alga have photosynthet machineri ultim deriv from the cyanobacteria, and so produc oxygen as a by-product of photosynthesi, unlik other photosynthet bacteria such as purpl and green bacteria. some unicellular speci reli entir on extern energi sourc and have limit or no photosynthet apparatu.

fossil filament alga from the vindhya basin have been date back to 1.6 to 1.7 billion year ago.

 alga ar usual found in damp place or water, and ar common on land as well as water. howev, terrestri alga ar usual rather inconspicu and ar far more common in moist, tropic region than dry on. alga lack vascular tissu and other adapt to live on land, but thei can endur dryness and other condit in symbiosi with a fungu as lichen.

the variou sort of alga plai signific role in aquat ecolog. microscop form that live suspend in the water column ar call phytoplankton. thei provid the food base for most marin food chain. kelp grow mostli in shallow marin water. some ar us as human food or harvest for agar or fertil. kelp can grow in larg stand call kelp forest. these forest prevent some of the damag from wave. mani differ speci live in them, includ sea urchin, sea otter, and abalon. 

some alga mai harm other speci. some alga mai reproduc a lot, and make an algal bloom. these alga mai produc protect toxin which can kill fish in the water. dinoflagel secret a compound that turn the flesh of fish into slime. the alga then consum thi nutriti liquid.

alga have evolv a number of symbiot partnership with other organ. the most famou is the plant-like lichen, which ar each form by a fungu with an alga. it is a highli success life-form, and twenti thousand 'speci' ar known. in all case the lichen ar quit differ in appear and life-style from either constitu; it is possibl the most complet symbiosi known. both constitu gain from their access to nich with low nutrient valu, which is where lichen ar found.

less well known ar the algal relationship with anim. reef-build coral ar basic social cnidarian polyp. coral ar depend on light, becaus the alga ar import partner, and thei requir light. coral have evolv structur, often tree-like, which offer the alga maximum access to light. the coral weaken the algal cell wall, and digest about 80% of the food synthesis by the alga. the coral' wast-product provid nutrient for the alga so, as with lichen, both partner gain from the associ. the alga ar golden-brown flagel alga, often of the genu symbiodinium. a curiou featur of the partnership is that the coral mai eject the alga in hard time, and regain them later. the eject of the algal partner is call bleach, becaus the coral lose it colour.p200

other type of cnideria, such as sea anemon and jellyfish, also contain alga. jellyfish with alga behav so that their partner get the best light dure the dai, and descend to depth at night, where the water is rich in nitrat and brown with decai. sea slug and clam ar also well-known for harbour alga. both group ar mollusc. the sea slug graze on coral, and ar the same colour as the coral thei graze. thei ar abl to separ the alga from the polyp tissu thei digest. the algal cell ar move to it tentacl, where thei continu to live. the otherwis defenceless slug gain both camouflag and nutrit.p204 the giant clam keep alga in it mantl, which is reveal when the clam is open. the colour mantl ha place where the skin is transpar, and act like a len to concentr light on the alga beneath. when the alga get too numer, the clam digest them.p203

variou other marin invertebr group have member which symbiont with alga. flatworm and polychaet worm ar two such group.

<titl>alkan</titl>
alkan ar chemic compound, made of carbon and hydrogen. the simplest alkan is methan, which is made of on carbon atom and four hydrogen atom. larger alkan have two or more carbon atom connect or bond togeth. the carbon atom of alkan ar join togeth by singl bond. the alkan's gener formula is cnh2n+2.

<titl>abacu</titl>
an abacu is a veri old tool us for arithmet. it is still us in some part of the world. sometim blind peopl will us an abacu, becaus thei can feel the number easili. the most common abacus work by move bead on rod.

abacus can do addit, subtract, multipl, divis, and peopl can us them to find the squar root of whole number. expert, or veri good, abacu user can sometim do math quicker than basic calcul. there is a common chines abacu. thi abacu is split into two basic row, on row for the "5"s, and the bottom row for the "on". there ar on or two bead in the top row, and four or five bead in the bottom on. for exampl, 8 is on bead on top and 3 below, becaus 5 + 3 = 8. everi column repres a differ digit. 

<titl>acid</titl>
an acid is someth that ha a ph less than 7.0 .

sometim, the abbrevi ha is us to mean an acid.

the chemistri definit of an acid is: "a substanc that donat a hydrogen ion to anoth substanc, which is call a base. " 

acid can be commonli found in natur. some of these includ:

acid can have differ strength, some ar more reactiv than other. more reactiv acid ar often more danger.

acid can have a lot of differ properti depend on their molecular structur. most acid:

acid can burn the skin. the burn can be seriou or minor depend on the kind of acid and how concentr it is. burn like thi can be a seriou problem. chemic burn like thi need medic attent.

 acid ar import. nucleic acid, such as dna and rna contain the genet code. these molecul determin mani characterist of an organ, thei ar pass from the parent to offspr. dna contain the plan how to build protein which ar made of amino acid. 

fatti acid and fatti acid deriv ar anoth group of carboxyl acid that plai a signific role in biologi. these contain long chain of hydrocarbon and a carboxyl acid group on on end. the cell membran of nearli all organ is primarili made up of a phospholipid bilay, a micel of hydrophob fatti acid chain with polar, hydrophil phosphat "head" group.

in human and mani other anim, hydrochlor acid is a part of the gastric acid secret within the stomach. it can help hydrolyz protein and polysaccharid. it can also convert the inact pro-enzym, pepsinogen into the enzym, pepsin. some organ produc acid for defens; for exampl, ant produc formic acid.

<titl>apollo 11</titl>
apollo 11 wa the first mission organis to send peopl to the moon. it wa organis by nasa, the american space agenc. it launch on juli 16, 1969, carri three astronaut neil armstrong, buzz aldrin and michael collin. on juli 20 the same year armstrong and aldrin becam the first human to land on the moon successfulli while collin flew abov them. 

the mission fulfil the challeng john f. kennedi had made in 1961 to "land a man on the moon, and return him safe to the earth", befor the 1960s end.

 million of peopl around the world view the launch of apollo 11 on televis. the launch wa a global event. richard nixon, who wa then presid, watch the launch from the white hous. a saturn v rocket launch the mission from the kennedi space center in 1969. about two hour after leav earth the lunar command and land modul separ from the main rocket. 3 dai later the crew enter lunar orbit . a dai later the land section or modul separ from the command modul. the land modul land safe on the moon with neil armstrong and buzz aldrin aboard. dure the land there were sever problem with the mission comput and to avoid a crash armstrong had to take manual control of the land craft. thei eventu land with onli 25 second of fuel left.

 the first thing buzz aldrin did upon touch down of the land modul wa to prai. he did not reveal hi intent to do thi beforehand as someon had recent file a lawsuit against nasa to stop astronaut from take part in religi activ while in space. armstrong becam the first human to walk and speak on the moon's surfac. the first word he said were - 

for the next two and a half hour aldrin and armstrong took note, photograph and drill core sampl. the land were broadcast to over six million peopl worldwid via giant radio receiv in australia. thei perform mani scientif experi includ the collect of lunar rock and dust. an american flag wa set up and photograph on the moon. 

 after finish their activ the two astronaut return to the land modul and slept for seven hour befor start to leav. while prepar for take off aldrin accident broke the circuit breaker in the ignit circuit. armstrong us a felt tip pen to bridg the gap and prevent them from be strand on the moon. aldrin and armstrong left mani object on the moon includ an american flag, a few experi and a plaqu bear a statement from the human race. the plaqu read here men from the planet earth first set foot upon the moon, juli 1969 a.d. we came in peac for all mankind.

the plaqu also held a disc contain messag from 73 leader of countri around the world, the word hello spoken in almost everi languag known to man and a pictur of two human. on juli 24 the astronaut return to earth and were immedi place into quarantin. nasa scientist were afraid that thei mai have been expos to unknown virus or diseas while on the moon that could be danger to human.

the three astronaut stai in quarantin for three week. upon their releas thei were treat as hero around the world. thei had dinner with presid nixon, a parad in mexico citi and anoth in washington. the three also face multipl televis interview and guest appear.

<titl>astronaut</titl>
an astronaut or cosmonaut is a person who goe into outer space. countri friendli to the soviet union alwai said cosmonaut, countri friendli to the unit state said astronaut.

astronaut ar also call "taikonaut" in china or "spationaut" in franc. 

the first person to go into space wa a russian from the soviet union, hi name wa yuri gagarin. thi happen on april 12, 1961.

the first and second person to walk on the moon were the american neil armstrong and buzz aldrin. thi happen on juli 20, 1969. 

no astronaut have gone to the moon sinc 1972. no peopl have visit ani other planet yet.

astronaut still go into space on the space shuttl and the soyuz spacecraft. sever countri have work togeth to build an intern space station so peopl can stai and work in space for long period of time.

<titl>alkali metal</titl>
alkali metal ar the chemic element in group on of the period system. thei ar silver-colour, soft and have onli on electron in the outermost shell. thei like to make reaction in which thei give up thi singl electron and then have a charg of +1. thei react strongli with water and becaus of thi, thei have to be store in petrol. alkali metal ar the first group in the period tabl. thei ar never found in natur uncombin becaus thei ar unstabl and thei react fast to other element. thei bond well with all element except the nobl gase. alkali metal have a balanc amount of proton and electron. thei have a few valenc electron. 

alkali metal ar: lithium , sodium , potassium , rubidium , cesium , and francium .

sodium is the most import alkali metal. on of the most import salt of sodium is sodium chlorid . it also form a hydroxid, sodium hydroxid , which is commonli call 'caustic soda'. it is a veri strong base. it is produc in the nelson cell or in the mercuri cathod cell by the electrolysi of aqueou nacl.

<titl>alphabet</titl>
an alphabet is a write system, a list of symbol for write. the basic symbol in an alphabet ar call letter. in an alphabet, each letter is a symbol for a sound or relat sound. to make the alphabet work better, more sign assist the reader: punctuat mark, space, standard read direct, and so on.

the name alphabet come from aleph and beth, the first two letter in the phoenician alphabet.

the alphabet in thi articl is the roman alphabet . it wa first us in ancient rome to write latin. todai mani languag also us the latin alphabet: it is the most us alphabet todai.

 it seem that the idea of an alphabet - a script base entir upon sound - aros onli onc, and ha been copi and adapt to suit mani differ languag. although no alphabet fit it languag perfectli, it is flexibl enough to fit ani languag approxim. it wa a uniqu invent.p12

 our alphabet is call the roman alphabet, as compar with the cyril and other alphabet. all of these come from the ancient greek alphabet, which date back to about 1100 to 800bc.p167 the greek alphabet wa probabl develop from the phoenician script, which appear somewhat earlier, and had some similar letter-shape. 

the phoenician spoke a semit languag, usual call canaanit. the semit group of languag includ arab, maltes, hebrew and also arama, the languag spoken by jesu. we don't know much about how the alphabet idea aros, but the phoenician, a trade peopl, came up with letter which were adapt by the earli greek to produc their alphabet. the on big differ is that the phoenician script had no pure vowel. arab script ha vowel which mai, but do not have to be, shown by diacrit . the oldest qu'ran manuscript had no diacrit, and isra children to about the third grade us text with vowel 'dot' ad.p89 

no ancient script, alphabet or not, had pure vowel befor the greek. the greek alphabet even ha two vowel for 'e' and two for 'o', to distinguish between the long and short sound. it is fairli clear from thi that care thought went into both the phoenician invent and the greek adapt, but no detail surviv of either process.

semit script appar deriv from proto-sinait, a script of which onli 31 inscript ar known. it is thought by some research that the origin sourc of thi script wa the egyptian hierat script, which by the late middl kingdom had ad some alphabet sign for repres the conson of foreign name. egyptian activ in sinai wa at it height at that time. a similar idea had been suggest mani year previous.

 other write system do not us symbol that mean a sound, but symbol that mean a word or a syllabl. in the past such write system were us by mani cultur, but todai thei ar almost onli us by languag peopl speak in asia.

<titl>atom number</titl>
in chemistri and physic, the atom number of an atom is the number of proton in the atom. the chemic element of the period tabl ar list in order of atom number. atom number ar free.

<titl>anatomi</titl>
anatomi is the studi of the bodi of live be . it is like take the bodi apart, and look at it part . peopl who studi anatomi then look where a certain organ should be, or where it normal is.

the histori of anatomi date back to 1600 bce when egyptian began studi human anatomi. thei discov the function of mani organ like the liver, spleen, kidnei, heart etc. and were the first to discov the structur and function of the lymphat system.

academ human anatomist ar usual emploi by univers, medic school or teach hospit. thei ar often involv in teach anatomi, and research into certain system, organ, tissu or cell.

there ar differ system, such as the cardiovascular system , the muscular system, and the nervou system .

<titl>andrei tarkovski</titl>
andrei arsenyevich tarkovski wa a soviet film director, writer and opera director. tarkovksi is list as on of the 100 filmmak best like by film critic. he attain critic acclaim for direct such film as andrei rublev, solari and stalker.

tarkovski also did a lot of work as a screenwrit, film editor and theater director.he is also import as a film theorist. he direct most of hi film in the soviet union, with the except of hi last two film which were produc in itali and sweden. hi film ar character by christian spiritu and metaphys theme. other thing that ar typic for hi film ar extrem long take, the lack of convent dramat structur and plot, and memor imag of except beauti.

tarkovski di of cancer, at ag 54. 

<titl>ambigu</titl>
ambigu mean someth that can mean two differ thing. such thing ar ambigu. sometim the word is us to mean someth that can mean sever thing or that is unclear. in the proper sens it should mean “two differ mean” becaus “ambi” come from the greek word for “two”.

word or sentenc that ar ambigu can lead to misunderstand . thi can sometim be seriou, but it can also be funni. joke often reli on ambigu.

the british comedian ronni barker said that he love the english languag becaus there ar so mani joke you can make us ambigu. he gave thi exampl: 

a mother sai to her littl boi: “johnni, go over the road and see how old mr jone is”. the boi come back and sai to hi mother: “mr jone sai it is none of my busi”.

the mother meant “old” in a friendli wai , but the sentenc could also mean: find out mr jone’s ag. thi is obvious how johnni understood hi mother's instruct.

the opposit of ambigu is unambigu .

<titl>aardvark</titl>
the aardvark is a mammal from africa. it name mean "earth pig" in the languag afrikaan. 

the aardvark is the onli surviv member of the famili orycteropodida and of the order tubulidentata.

the aardvark look a bit like other anim, like the south american anteat but thei ar not relat.

 adult aardvark weigh about 50 kilogram and a littl more than on meter long.

 aardvark eat mostli ant and termit. thei have a long sticki tongu which make it easi to pick up mani ant at onc.

aardvark ar nocturn, which mean thei ar awak at night and asleep dure the dai.

<titl>adventur</titl>
an adventur is someth excit that happen to someon. an adventur can be a made-up stori, or it can be someth that happen in real life.

peopl often like to read stori about a person or a group of peopl who go off and have an adventur. there is often some danger in the stori. enid blyton wrote stori about the famou five who go off to have excit adventur. harri potter ha lot of adventur: he meet strang peopl and get into lot of danger situat.

peopl in real life like to have adventur. thei mai be explor who like to go to far-awai place where no on ha ever been befor.

adventur sport ar sport that ar excit but can be rather danger. skydiv, glide and rock climb ar adventur sport.

an adventur playground is a playground for children where thei can climb, swing and jump on thing. thei have been made by adult for children to us and ar normal quit safe.

an adventur is someon who spend all hi life go on adventur or do thing that ar riski.

space travel is an exampl of a modern adventur.

an adventur game is a video game about adventur.

the word ventur is a short form of "adventur". a "busi ventur" is a busi project in which there is a lot of risk. "ventur" can also be a verb: "thei ventur out into the storm".

<titl>asia</titl>
asia is the largest contin on earth, place in the northern hemispher. it is connect to europ in the west. togeth, asia and europ ar call eurasia.

asia is surround by the mediterranean sea, the black sea, the arctic ocean, the pacif ocean, and the indian ocean. it is separ from europ by the caucasu mountain and the ural mountain. 

some of the oldest human civil began in asia, such as sumer, china, and india. china and india ar also the two countri with the most peopl in the world.

a long, mainli land border in the west separ europ and asia. thi boundari run north-south down the ural mountain in russia, along the ural river to the caspian sea, and through the caucus mountain to the black sea. about three-quarter of russia li in asia, while the rest is in europ. small part of four other asian countri ar in europ. 

the asian contin is the largest of all contin. cover about 3/10 of the world's land area, it ha more peopl than ani other contin with about 3/5 of the world's total popul. stretch from the ici arctic in the north to the hot and steami equatori land in the south, asia contain huge, empti desert, as well as some of the world's highest mountain and longest river. 

<titl>aruba</titl>
aruba is an island in the caribbean sea, just a short distanc north of the venezuelan paraguaná peninsula, and it form a part of the kingdom of the netherland. unlik much of the caribbean region, it ha a dry climat and an arid, cactu-strewn landscap. thi climat ha help tourism, howev, as visitor to the island can reliabl expect warm, sunni weather.

the island broke off from the netherland antil in 1986, hope to gain it independ by 1996. in 1990, that effort stop at the request of the island itself.

the island came into the new after high school senior natale hollowai disappear on a high school graduat trip on mai 30, 2005.

<titl>articl of confeder</titl>
definit of articl of confeder: the first written plan of govern for the u.s. thi last from 1776 to 1781. confeder: an associ of state who cooper for a common purpos. 

 even though the articl of confeder and the constitut were establish by mani of the same peopl, the two document were veri differ. the origin five-page articl contain thirteen articl, a conclus, and a signatori section. the follow list contain short summari of each of the thirteen articl.

<titl>atlant ocean</titl>
scientist sai that million of year ago, there wa onli on ocean, and that most of the land in the world wa join togeth over where the atlant ocean is now. eventu, thei think an enorm crack develop in the ground due to volcan forc, and that the contin start ever so slowli drift awai from each other. the crack would have fill with water from river, and eventu the sea might have broken through from the north and the south. even to thi dai, the east coast of the america is shape somewhat like the west coast of africa, but the differ is actual much greater than it might appear, so it is not realli an exact fit or even a close on. the atlant ocean is still grow now, becaus of sea-floor spread from the mid-atlant ridg, while the pacif ocean is said to be shrink becaus the sea floor is fold under itself.

 the atlant ocean ha import ocean current. on of these, call the gulf stream, flow across the north atlant. water get heat by the sun in the caribbean sea and then move northwest toward the north pole. thi make franc, ireland, britain, iceland, and norwai in europ much warmer in winter than newfoundland and nova scotia in canada. without the gulf stream, the climat of northeast canada and northwest europ might be the same, becaus these place ar about the same distanc from the north pole.

there ar current in the south atlant too, but the shape of thi sea mean that it ha less effect on south africa.

<titl>arthur schopenhau</titl>
arthur schopenhau wa a german philosoph. 

schopenhau believ that the primari characterist, or essenc of all thing - includ human be - is not intellig, ration or spirit, but will. by 'will' he mean a blind, amazingli power forc that forc everyth, from a rock to georg bush, into exist for no real reason, as it ha no real reason itself for exist and becaus of thi, there is immens amount of suffer in the world. he also believ that a "better conscious" could be attain by deni the fulfil our desir, take time to think about who we realli ar and what we should do to avoid suffer - but also, in do someth few philosoph of hi dai spoke of: in make and look at work of art, especi music, which he consid on of the few justif for human exist.

schopenhau wa a huge influenc on richard wagner, friedrich nietzsch, ludwig wittgenstein, thoma mann, sigmund freud, leo tolstoi, carl jung and mani other import artist and thinker of the 20th centuri.

<titl>angola</titl>
angola is a countri in africa. the capit is luanda. angola is situat in the south of the contin.

<titl>alberta</titl>
alberta is a provinc in canada. it li in the western part of canada. the provinc of british columbia is west of alberta. the provinc of saskatchewan is east of alberta. it is north of montana, on of the state in the unit state. 

alberta is the fourth largest canadian provinc. it ha an area of 642,317 km². alberta ha 3,305,800 peopl. there ar three provinc in canada that have more peopl. 

the capit of alberta is edmonton. edmonton is close to the middl of alberta. calgari is anoth citi in alberta. it is south of edmonton. 

 alberta ha a lot of oil and natur ga. it is hard to find a job in alberta becaus there is a lot of peopl there, becaus thei all want the oil. there ar also a lot of farm in alberta. farmer grow wheat and other thing. there ar also a lot of cow on alberta farm, and alberta beef is export.

some of alberta get a lot of snow in the winter. alberta can be veri cold in the winter. there is a part of alberta in the south.

alberta wa made a provinc of canada in 1905. 

<titl>arctic circl</titl>
the arctic circl is on of the five major circl of latitud that ar often mark on map of the earth. thi is the parallel of latitud that run 66° 33' 39" north of the equat.

the arctic circl is on wai to sai what part of the earth is in the arctic. the north pole is in the center of the arctic circl.

<titl>actinopterygii</titl>
the actinopterygii is the class of rai-fin fish.

the rai-fin fish get their name from the fact that thei have lepidotrichia or "fin rai". their fin ar web of skin held by boni or horni spine . thi is differ from the fleshi fin of the fish in the sarcopterygii. 

actinopterygian ar the largest class of vertebr. there ar nearli 25,000 speci. thei can be found in both fresh water and marin environ from the deep sea to the highest mountain stream. most of the live speci ar teleost.

<titl>albert einstein</titl>
albert einstein wa a famou scientist. he receiv the nobel prize in physic in 1921.

einstein is famou for hi theori about light, matter, graviti, space, and time, which help scientist to understand these thing much better than thei had befor. hi theori includ the theori of special rel and the theori of gener rel. hi most famou equat is . it mean that energi and mass ar differ form of the same thing, and that the amount of energi in a piec of mass is the same as the amount of the mass multipli by the speed of light time itself .

einstein wa born at ulm in württemberg, germani on march 14, 1879. hi famili wa jewish but wa not veri religi. albert did not talk until he wa about three, which is veri unusu. when albert wa around four, hi father gave him a magnet compass. he wa veri interest in try to understand how an invis forc could make the needl move and becam interest in studi scienc and mathemat. thi compass inspir him to explor the world. albert went to a roman cathol school. he wa not a good student, and mani peopl thought him to not be veri smart.

when he becam older, he went to a school in switzerland. after he graduat, he got a job in the patent offic there. while he wa work there, he wrote the paper that made him famou as a great scientist. einstein had two heavili-disabl children with hi first wife mileva hi daughter 'lieser' wa born about a year befor their marriag in januari 1902. she spent her veri short life in the care of serbian grandpar where it is believ she di from scarlet fever. some believ she mai have been born with the disord down syndrom but it ha never been proven. her veri exist onli becam known to the world in 1986 when a shoe-box wa discov by einstein's grand-daughter in an attic in california contain 54 love letter exchang between mileva and einstein from late 1897 to septemb 1903. eduard einstein wa diagnos at ag 7 with a sever mental ill spend decad in hospit, dy in the zurich sanitorium in 1965. 

there is an indirect connect between brain size and the size of the neopallium especi import for the brain's higher function. howev, einstein's brain weight wa below-averag and show further sign of degener .

in 1917, einstein becam veri sick with an ill that almost kill him. hi cousin elsa lowenth then nurs him back to health. after thi, einstein divorc mileva, and marri elsa on june 2, 1919. 

just befor the start of world war i, he move back to germani, and becam director of a school there. he live in berlin until the nazi govern came to power. the nazi hate peopl who were jewish or who came from jewish famili. thei accus einstein of help to creat "jewish physic," and german physicist tri to prove that hi theori were wrong. 

in 1933, under death threat from the nazi and despis by the nazi-control german press, einstein and elsa move to the unit state to princeton, new jersei after feel the heat of nazi germani and in 1940 he becam a unit state citizen.

dure world war ii, einstein and leó szilárd wrote to the u.s. presid franklin d. roosevelt, to sai that the unit state should invent an atom bomb befor the nazi govern could invent on first. he wa not part of the manhattan project, which wa the project to creat the atom bomb. he wa the onli on that sign the letter.

einstein di on april 18, 1955 of a burst aorta heart diseas. he wa still write about quantum physic hour befor he di.

 the theori of special rel wa publish by einstein in 1905 on a paper call "on the electrodynam of move bodi". it state that both distanc measur and time measur ar alter near the speed of light. thi mean that as you get closer to the speed of 300,000 kilometr per second, length appear to shrink, and clock tick more slowli. einstein propos that special rel is base on two idea. the first is that the law of physic ar the same for all observ that ar not move in relat to each other. all the peopl on a jet airplan would not be move much in relat to each other, but the peopl in two differ jet airplan that come toward each other would be move toward each other veri fast. the peopl who ar all go in the same direct at the same speed ar said to be in an "inerti frame." the second idea is that the speed of light in a vacuum is alwai the same. a vacuum is a space without ani matter in it. 

peopl who ar in the same "frame" will measur how long someth take to happen in the same wai. their clock will keep the same time. but peopl move in anoth "frame" will look over at them and see that their clock were move at a differ rate. the reason that thi happen is actual quit simpl. it is the consequ of two idea. on idea we have seen alreadi. no matter what you ar do, even if you ar move toward a distant star at half the speed of light, or if you ar move awai from it at half the speed of light , if you measur the speed of the light come from that star it will alwai be the same number. the other idea goe against our ordinari idea. the other idea sai that who is stand still and who is move is whoever you sai is stand still or move. how can that be?

imagin you were all alon in a differ univers. that univers ha no sun, planet, or anyth els. it just ha you and your spaceship. ar you move? ar you stand still? those question do not mean anyth. why? becaus when we sai we ar move we mean that we can measur our distanc from someth els at on time and measur the distanc at anoth time and the number will not be the same. if the number get bigger we ar move awai. if the number get smaller we ar move closer. suppos a sailor is stand on the edg of a veri long boat with a flat top. her boyfriend is stand on the dock. thei ar still veri close togeth, so thei shout to each other. the boat start to leav. the sailor run toward the back of the boat at the same speed that the boat move forward so she and her boyfriend can keep talk. as far as her boyfriend is concern, she is not move. so to have movement you must have at least two thing. we don't think about it becaus when we sit on the earth in a park, which is move veri fast around the sun, we think we ar not move becaus we do not get ani closer or farther awai from the tree in the park.

now imagin that anoth spaceship appear in thi other univers. on your spaceship you sai that their spaceship is come closer to your. after all, you don't feel yourself move. on their spaceship thei sai that your spaceship is come closer to their. thei don't feel themselv to be move either. somebodi on an airplan can be move at sever hundr kilomet per hour, but thei sai, "i am just sit here." 

let us try to stretch our mind a bit. imagin that a basketbal player is on a glass airplan on the ground. peopl outsid can see him veri easili. he begin to walk from the back of the airplan toward the front of the airplan, bounc hi basketbal as he goe. mayb the distanc between the place where hi basketbal hit the floor of the airplan is about on meter or on yard. if some peopl ar under the airplan thei can mark the place directli under the airplan where the ball hit the floor. those mark ar a meter or mayb a yard apart. so everybodi agre that the bounc ar about a meter or a yard apart. later the plane take off. peopl still watch it from on the ground. but thi time bounc number 5 is over a place in england and bounc number 6 is over a place in scotland. the distanc between bounc is measur in kilomet or mile on the ground, but the peopl on the plane get the same answer thei did while the plane wa on the ground.

now suppos some peopl ar on a big spaceship and thei want to make a veri accur clock. so thei make a long tunnel between deck from what would be like the top of an airplan to what would be the bottom of an airplan. at on end thei put a mirror, and at the other end thei put a simpl machin. it shoot on short burst of light toward the mirror and then wait. the light hit the mirror and bounc back. when it hit a light detector on the machin, the machin sai, "count = 1," it simultan shoot anoth short burst of light toward the mirror, and when that light come back the machin sai, "count = 2." of cours sinc light is veri fast the count chang veri fast. thei decid that a certain number of bounc will be defin as a second, and thei make the machin chang the second counter everi time it ha detect that number of bounc. everi time it chang the second counter it also flash a light out through a porthol under the machin. so somebodi out take a space walk will see the light flash everi second.

everi grade school child know the formula d=rt . we know the speed of light, and we can easili measur the distanc between the machin and the mirror and multipl that to give the distanc the light travel. so we have both d and r, and we can easili calcul t. the peopl on the spaceship compar their new "light clock" with their variou wrist watch and other clock, and thei ar satisfi that thei can measur time well us their new light clock.

now thi spaceship happen to be go veri fast. it is not come to earth to visit, but it doe happen to fly over the north pole. there is a scienc station with a telescop at the north pole. thei see a flash from the clock on the space ship, and then thei see anoth flash. onli the flash do not come a second apart. thei come at a slower rate. the reason is that the situat is like the basketbal player on the airplan. the ball is push downward by the player's hand. that is the light in the spaceship's machin fire off a burst toward the mirror. the ball hit the floor and bounc. that is like the light hit the mirror and be reflect. the ball return to the player's hand. that is like the light hit the machin and trigger a new burst of light. note that the distanc between the place on the ground where the basketbal is seen to hit the floor and the distanc on the ground where the basketbal is seen to return to the basketbal player's hand is some great distanc. depend on how fast the plane is go, it might be a kilomet or even a mile awai.

so the man on the north pole see the light flash on the side of the spaceship when it is thousand of mile awai, and then see the next flash when the spaceship ha gotten thousand of mile closer. the wai the north pole man see it, the light start out, let's sai, 100,000 mile awai and hit it return point when it wa perhap 90,000 mile awai. so instead of just travel twice the diamet of the space ship the light ha travel 10,000 mile. light alwai goe at the same speed, d = rt, and so the time thi trip took is go to be much greater --- as seen by the man on the north pole. that is why the clock on the spaceship is not flash onc a second for the earth observ. 

special rel also relat energi with mass, in albert einstein's e=mc2 formula.

 e=mc2, also call the mass-energi equival, is on of the thing that einstein is most famou for. it is a famou equat in physic and math that relat mass to energi. the "e" in the equat stand for energi. energi is a number which you give to object depend on how much thei chang. it is a number given to all physic object to describ how much potenti the object ha in order to chang. there ar three basic form of energi: potenti energi, kinet energi, and rest energi. when energi move from on form to anoth, the amount of energi alwai remain the same. it cannot be made or destroi. thi rule is call the "conserv law of energi". for exampl, when you throw a ball, the energi is transfer from your hand to the ball as you releas it. but the energi that wa in your hand, and now the energi that is in the ball is the same number. the "m" in the equat stand for mass. mass is the amount of matter you have in your bodi. a lot of peopl think mass and weight is the same thing, but it is not. an object alwai ha the same amount of mass, even if you were to go to the moon, while the weight of an object chang if you go to the moon. but the mass can chang as it get closer to the speed of light. the object becom bigger. but mass and weight ar also similar in some wai. becaus a boulder weigh more than a pebbl, it ha more energi in it, and therefor ha more mass. the c2 in the equat stand for the speed of light squar. to squar someth mean to multipli it by itself, so if you were to squar the speed of light, it would be 299,792,458 meter per second, time 299,792,458 meter per second. einstein's equat, e=mc2, impli that an object with mass ha energi in it mass, and object with more mass have more energi. an exampl of thi is a photon. a light photon ha no mass, but it energi can act as it mass when it hit someth. the equat also sai that an object with mass cannot go faster than the speed of light.

 the gener theori of rel wa publish in 1915, ten year after the special theori of rel wa creat. accord to the gener theori of rel, the gravit attract between mass result in the mass in space and time, mean that everi object is attract to each other, and that result in space and time. einstein's gener rel also explain spacetim. spacetim is the fact that we have a four dimension univers, have three spatial dimens, and on tempor dimens. all physic object-us, the moon, the sun, the milki wai, everyth, is locat insid these three dimens. also, mass caus the shape of spacetim to chang, make it curv. all thing follow these curv. black hole ar a major sourc of gravit wave. a black hole is an object in the univers that ha such a strong pull of graviti, that not even light can escap it. thei ar form when giant star, at least three time the size of our sun, di. thi is call a supernova. also, gener rel explain gravit lens, which is where light bend when a massiv object come near it. thi wa proven dure a solar eclips, when the sun's bend of starlight from distant star could be measur becaus of the dark of the eclips. gener rel also set the stage for the theori of the format of our univers. thi theori is call the big bang. gener rel explain singular, which is what scientist think the univers form from. thi singular wa small, dens, and veri hot. all of the matter that we know todai came out of thi point 15 billion year ago.

 mani scientist onli care about their work, but einstein also spoke and wrote often about polit and world peac. he like the idea of social and of have onli on govern for the whole world. he also work for zionism, the effort to try to creat the new countri of israel.

einstein's famili wa jewish, but einstein never practic thi religion serious. he like the idea of the jewish philosoph baruch spinoza and also thought that buddhism wa a good religion.

even though einstein thought of mani idea that help scientist understand the world much better, he disagre with mani scientif theori that were develop later in hi life. mani scientif theori discuss thing that we cannot know for certain, but onli as probabl. einstein did not like these kind of theori; he thought that it should be possibl to understand anyth, if we had the correct theori. he onc said, "i do not believ that god plai dice with the univers."

becaus einstein help scienc so much, hi name is now us for sever differ thing. a unit us in photochemistri wa name for him. it is equal to avogadro's number multipli by the energi of on photon of light. the chemic element einsteinium is name after the scientist as well. in slang, we sometim call a veri smart person an "einstein."

on of hi inspir sai is "there ar two wai to live your life, on is as though noth is a miracl, the other is as though everyth is a miracl."

there is still a strong critic of einstein. ronald william clark sai that einstein hate germani and the german sinc hi youth. g.o.mueller wrote a whole encyclopedia refut einstein's rel. g.o.mueller, aristotl, kant, leibniz sai space and time ar categori of percept, not distort "thing", and not join togeth.the speed of light could be higher. paul dirac and other thought that constant can chang over time, too . g.o.mueller list about 4000 einstein-critic work sinc 1905, ralli worldwid for rethink rel.

<titl>afghanistan</titl>
afghanistan is a countri locat in south-central asia. it is border by iran in the west, pakistan in the south and east, turkmenistan, uzbekistan, tajikistan in the north, and china in the northeast.

islam is the main religion. pashto and persian ar the main and formal languag. the popul of afghanistan is divid into mani ethnic group of which pashtun, tajik, hazara, uzbek and baloch. although the name afghan refer to pashtun onli, under the constitut of afghanistan, the word afghan appli to everi citizen of afghanistan. the name afghanistan mean the "land of afghan".

1.pashtun 56%

2. tajik 27%

3. hazara 6%

4. uzbek 6%

5. aimak 2%

6. turmkmen 1%

7. baloch 1%

8. other 1%

 afghanistan is in the path of import trade rout connect southern and eastern asia to europ and the middl east. becaus of thi, mani empir builder have conquer the area. sign that these conqueror were in the area can still be found in mani part of the countri. 

the modern countri of afghanistan wa establish in 1747. in 1919, the king of afghanistan declar independ for the state under the new name afghanistan. the histori of the land doe not begin in 1747. aryan tribe settl in the area around 4000 year ago and call their land airiana vaejo mean the "land of aryan". thi name wa mention in the avesta, the old book of their religion, zoroastrian. the old greek writer heard the word and call the land of these aryan settler ariana. 

by the middl of the sixth centuri bc, the persian who were also aryan includ the area within it boundari and creat persian empir. alexand the great conquer persian empir by fight in 330 bc. after him kushan, parthian and sassanian took over.

other peopl took the region by fight like the arab , turk and mongol . the area which is now known as afghanistan wa then call khorasan and it wa a prosper and import provinc of persia, as it wa the seat of most ruler. 

in the 18th centuri, khorasan wa control between the safavid of persia and moghul ruler of india . thei were cruel to afghan who were live in the south eastern part of khorasan. afghan then revolt and separ khorasan from persia and mughal empir of india in 1747. 

the countri serv as a buffer between the british and russian empir until it won independ from british control in 1919.

 in 1979, the soviet union attack and occupi afghanistan. the occup led to the kill of at least 600,000 to 2 million afghan civilian, and made mani peopl becom refuge. unit state support an afghan islam upris, call the mujahideen against soviet occup. after the soviet left afghanistan in 1989, a seri of civil war continu.

in 1996, a hardlin movement call the taliban took over afghanistan. the taliban had emerg in 1994, and were sponsor by pakistan. dure the taliban's rule, much of the afghan experienc restrict on their freedom and violat of their human right. the civil war and taliban rule left afghanistan in ruin.

follow the septemb 11 attack, the unit state overthrew the taliban govern for refus to hand over osama bin laden and sever al-qaida member who were also behind these attack. 

in decemb 2004, hamid karzai becam the first democrat elect presid of afghanistan.

<titl>albania</titl>
albania is a countri in southeastern europ. the capit is tirana. over 3.6 million peopl live in albania. 

albania is next to kosovo, montenegro, greec and macedonia. it ha a coast on the adriat sea in the west, and a coast on the ionian sea in the southwest.

the offici languag is albanian. 

the nation anthem is hymni i flamurit.

 there ar 36 district in albania. the district ar:

<titl>allah</titl>
the word allah is the arab term for god, or in other word, the arab god. in islam, allah is the main word for god. muslim us 99 name of god to describ god, but allah is the most common of these and mean all of them. when a muslim sai allah, all of the other name of god ar thought of as part of it. muslim also believ that thi word tell about god's be a singl entiti and as be without wrong or defect and of god have no partner. 

in arab, the name is compos of four letter, ا ل ل ه which when brought togeth make الله. most arab christian believ that allah is made up of three devin be; the father, son and spirit, that togeth thei make up god.

"allah" is often us by muslim, when thei're prai. muslim have a faith in on god, on person who made everyth, on judg and onli on person who ha power over all thing.

<titl>azerbaijan</titl>
azerbaijan , or republ of azerbaijan, is a countri in south caucasu region of eurasia. it is next to russia in the north, georgia, armenia, in the west, iran in the south, and caspian sea on the east. azerbaijan also includ nakhchivan autonom republ, anenclav, which is next to armenia to the north and east, iran to the south and west, and turkei to the northwest.

most of azerbaijan's land is locat in western asia and is call an asian countri by the unit nation. howev, becaus it is close and it's histori is relat to europ, azerbaijan is also a member of a number of european group, includ the council of europ sinc 2001.

<titl>aikido</titl>
aikido is a japanes martial art develop by the man morihei ueshiba in the 20th centuri. the word aikido mean "the wai of join with life energi". aikido is a martial art for self-defens by us the attack's own strength against him and not oppos him with physic strength.

<titl>art</titl>
the word art is us to describ some activ or creation of human be that have import to the human mind, regard an attract to the human sens. therefor, art is made when a human express himself or herself. some art is us in a practic sens, such as a sculptur clai bowl that on can put thing in. mani peopl disagre on how to defin art. mani peopl sai peopl ar driven to make art due to their inner creativ. art includ draw, paint, sculpt, photographi, perform art, danc, music, poetri, prose and theatr.

 some peopl sai that art is a product or item that is made with the intent of stimul the human sens as well as the human mind or spirit.

an artwork is normal judg by how much impact it ha on peopl, the amount of peopl who can relat to it, and how much peopl appreci it. 

the first and broadest sens of "art" mean "arrang" or "to arrang." in thi sens, art is creat when someon arrang thing found in the world into a new or differ design or form; or when someon arrang color next to each other in a paint to make an imag or just to make a pretti or interest design.

art can also be a form of express of emot. the artist mai feel a certain emot and feel there is no other wai to express it than to creat someth that mean someth to them. most of the art creat in thi case is made for the artist rather than an audienc. though if an audienc is abl to connect with the emot as well, then the art work will becom publicli success.

all of the great ancient civil, such as ancient egypt, india, china, greec, rome or arabia had work and style of art. in the middl ag, most of the art in europ show biblic stori in paint, stain glass window, and mosaic tile floor and wall.

islam art includ geometr pattern, islam calligraphi, and architectur. in india and tibet, paint sculptur, danc, and religi paint were done. in china, art includ jade carv, bronzework, potteri, poetri, calligraphi, music, paint, drama, and fiction. there ar mani chines artist style, which ar usual name after the rule dynasti. 

in europ, after the middl ag, there wa a "renaiss" which mean "rebirth". peopl rediscov scienc and artist were allow to paint subject other than religi subject. peopl like michelangelo and leonardo da vinci still paint religi pictur, but thei also now could paint mytholog pictur too. these artist also invent linear perspect where thing in the distanc look smaller than thing close up in the pictur. thi wa new becaus in the middl ag peopl would paint all the figur close up and just overlap each other. 

in the late 1800s, artist in europ, respond to modern creat mani new paint style such as classic, romantic, realism, and impression. the histori of twentieth centuri art includ expression, fauvism, cubism, dadaism, and surreal, and minim.

in some societi, peopl think that art belong to the person who made it, such as indigen aborigin australian art. thei think that the artist put hi or her "talent" into the art. in thi view, the art is the properti of the artist. 

in other societi, peopl think that art belong to no on. thei think that societi ha put it social capit into the artist and the artist's work. in thi view, societi is a collect that ha made the art, through the artist.

<titl>abort</titl>
in mammal, an abort is when a pregnanc end earli without the birth of offspr. abort can occur spontan, usual becaus someth went wrong with the pregnanc. when thi happen, it is call a miscarriag. human can also end the pregnanc on purpos befor birth take place. thi is call an induc abort.

 a develop human take about thirti-eight week to grow and be born. normal, thi occur about forti week after the mother's last menstrual period. thi develop human is call embryo for the first eight week of the pregnanc, and fetu for the remain thirti-two.

 there ar two kind of abort. sometim, thing go wrong dure a pregnanc. these thing mai lead to the death of the embryo or fetu. depend on what time in pregnanc thei happen in, such abort ar call miscarriag or stillbirth.

in some case finish the pregnanc might be veri danger for the pregnant woman. give birth might also be veri difficult for her, she mai have mani worri, or she might not want to have a babi at all. in such case, thing can be done to end the pregnanc on purpos. thi is call an induc abort. 

in both type of abort, the embryo or fetu usual come out of the womb. thi is call a complet abort. in some case, the embryo or fetu remain insid the womb. thi is call a miss abort. surgeri is need to remov the embryo or fetu from the womb so the woman doesn't get an infect.

 peopl speak of spontan abort or miscarriag when the embryo or fetu is lost due to natur caus befor the 20th week of pregnanc. a pregnanc that end thi wai, but that is between 20 and 37 week old is known as "prematur birth" if the babi is born aliv. if the fetu di in the womb after 20 week, or while it is born, thi is known as "stillbirth". prematur birth and stillbirth ar gener not consid to be miscarriag.

 spontan abort ar common. about fifteen percent of pregnanc end in spontan abort. in mani case, the woman is not even awar she wa pregnant. the pregnanc is onli a few dai or week old and the woman believ the miscarriag is just her mens. about twenti-five percent of all women will have a spontan abort dure their live.

most miscarriag occur veri earli. between ten and fifti percent of pregnanc end with a miscarriag, where the mother or the doctor ar awar of it. these figur depend on the ag and health of the pregnant woman. most spontan abort occur so earli in the pregnanc that the woman is not even awar that she wa pregnant. on particular studi show a rate of pregnanc in expos ovulatori cycl of 59.6%; with 61.9% of conceptus lost befor twelv week. 91.7% of these occuri subclin, without the knowledg of the mother.

the risk of spontan abort decreas sharpli after the 10th week of pregnanc, with a loss rate between 8.5 week lmp and birth of about two percent; pregnanc loss is “virtual complet by the end of the embryon period."

 those peopl who have alreadi had sever spontan or induc abort run a greater risk of have a spontan on. those with certain diseas, and those over the ag 35 also run a greater risk. other caus for abort can be the infect of either the woman or embryo/fetu, or their immun respons. certain diseas or an accident trauma can also caus a spontan abort. put the woman under trauma or stress to caus miscarriag is consid induc abort. some countri call thi feticid.

 most miscarriag ar due to problem with the copi of chromosom, but some ar caus by environment factor. when a human is conceiv, it get 23 chromosom from it mother and 23 from it father. if it doe not get the right number it develop happen wrong it mai have mani bad birth defect.

most embryo and fetus with chromosom problem will not live for a long time. thei die veri earli. there ar a few chromosom problem that babi can sometim be born with. for exampl, down syndrom happen when there ar three copi of chromosom #21. thi is call trisomi 21 

 the most common symptom is bleed from the vagina. thi can be veri littl blood it can be veri much blood some women have bad pain in their low abdomen when thei have a miscarriag. thi is sometim like the pain of mens. it can be much wors. or a woman mai have no pain at all. if the pregnanc is mani week old, the woman mai see the embryo or fetu when it come out. but if it is less than 12 week old a woman mai not see anyth but blood.

 sometim no treatment is need. sometim doctor do a surgic abort. thi is the same kind of surgeri that is done for induc abort. sometim doctor give women medicin to help the miscarriag finish without need surgeri.

 an induc abort is when thing ar done to end the pregnanc on purpos. these thing should usual be done by doctor. in countri where abort can be done legal, it is often done by specialist who know a lot about women's bodi. abort done illeg ar often perform by peopl without thi special knowledg. thi make them more danger. such abort ar usual call unsaf abort, mainli becaus the risk to the health of the mother is much higher than with abort carri out by skill doctor.

 there can be medic reason, why an abort is perform. these includ:

 surgic induc abort ar where the embryo or fetu is taken out by a physic act. the kind of surgic abort done depend on how long the pregnanc ha gone on. it is easier in earlier stage of the pregnanc. there ar less problem that can occur. so it is best to do a surgic abort as earli as possibl.

medic abort ar where a doctor give a woman a medicin to end the pregnanc. there ar two medicin us for thi. the medicin ar mifepriston and methotrex. these two medicin both stop the pregnanc. then the abort happen like a spontan abort.

 a pregnanc that end without a child be born also mai caus some problem to the woman thi happen to. there ar two broad group of thing that can happen:

 abort is safer than childbirth, if it is done befor the 16th week of pregnanc and a profession doe the abort. certain method of abort ar pretti safe, and complic ar rare. gener, stop a pregnanc that ha gone on longer is riskier.

women typic feel a small amount of pain dure first-trimest abort procedur. in a 1979 studi of 2,299 patient, 97% report experienc some degre of pain. patient rate the pain as be less than earach or toothach, but more than headach or backach.

local and gener anesthesia ar us dure the procedur.

 few studi have been done to see if an abort affect the woman psycholog, or mental. those that have been done give contradictori result. on studi look at 13.000 women who had becom pregnant even though thei did not want to. the studi found that have an induc abort doe not increas the risk of get mental health problem; the group that wa compar were women who also did not want to have a babi, but who did not have an abort. other studi show similar result: women who had an abort did better in school or at work after the abort. anoth studi show that women who had an abort had a higher self-esteem and felt better than those who did not.

mani women who had an abort felt better afterward, thei also felt reliev. thei would do it again in a similar situat.

a studi done in new zealand in 2006 show that mani women who had an abort develeop sever depress up to 4 year after thei had the abort. thei were also more like have problem with alcohol and illeg drug than those women who did not have an abort. the person who oversaw the studi later told media that given these result it would be veri hard to sai that have an abort ha no psycholog effect on the womam who ha is. he call the abort "a traumat experi".

 both spontan and induc abort have some risk for the woman.

if a bad thing happen becaus of a surgeri or medicin that a doctor give, or becaus of a miscarriag, it is call a complic. complic of abort can be infect, bleed, pain. there mai or mai not be problem get pregnant again; thi is still be research. in place where induc abort ar legal less than 1% of induc abort have a bad complic. if doctor do induc abort, the risk to the woman is less than the risk of complic of childbirth . in place where induc abort ar legal, less women have complic of induc abort than in place where induc abort is illeg. thi is becaus induc abort that ar not done by doctor have much more risk. for exampl, after induc abort becam legal in the unit state in 1973, less women di from have abort. in the unit state in 2000, 11 women di from the complic of legal abort. the risk of death from a legal abort is 1/100 of the risk of an appendectomi. the risk of death from an inject of penicillin is bigger than the risk of death from a legal abort.

there can be emot problem for the woman after a spontan or induc abort. she mai feel sad, angri, or guilti that she had a miscarriag or ask for an abort. she mai think she ha done someth that made the miscarriag happen, or that have an abort wa the wrong thing to do, and becaus of thi she mai feel intens grief. there ar mani place where women can get help deal with these feel.

some women who have induc abort mai get critic from friend or famili who have differ belief. when scientist look at thi in research studi, howev, thei do not usual see that women have emot problem after induc abort. in 1987, presid ronald reagan told the surgeon gener of the us to look at thi question. both presid reagan and the surgeon gener c. everett koop did not think abort wa right. dr koop look at 250 paper that scientist wrote in scientif journal. dr koop said that the scienc we know doe not show that induc abort caus emot problem for women who have them.

 the number of induc abort done ar differ for differ part of the world. thi is also true for the reason why women decid to have an abort. estim ar that about 46 million induc abort ar done worldwid, everi year. 26 million of them occur in place where abort is legal, 20 million happen in countri where it is illeg to have an abort. some countri, like belgium and the netherland have a low rate of induc abort. other, like russia and vietnam have a compar high rate. overal, there ar 26 induc abort per 100 known pregnanc.

abort rate vari. the length the pregnanc ha gone on, and the method us to do the abort influenc these rate. accord to data collect in the unit state, 88.2% of abort were done in the first twelv week of pregnanc, 10.4% between week 13 and week 20 of the pregnanc. the remain 1.4% were done in week 21 or later. 

90.9% were done by curettag, 7.7% were medic abort , 0.4% by "intrauterin instil" , and 1.0% by "other" . the guttmach institut estim there were 2,200 intact dilat and extract procedur in the u.s. dure 2000 - 0.17% of the total number of abort perform that year. similarli, in england and wale in 2006, 89% of termin occur at or under 12 week, 9% between 13 and 19 week, and 1.5% at or over 20 week. 64% of those report were by vacuum aspir, 6% by d&e, and 30% were medic. later abort ar more common in china, india, and other develop countri than in develop countri.

in 1998, a studi wa done in 27 countri. thi studi want to find the reason, why women want to end their pregnanc. it found that women often gave on of the follow reason:

a differ studi, done in the unit state in 2004 came to similar conclus. 

women who had an abort in finland and the unit state usual did not state that the pregnanc pose a risk to their health. in bangladesh, india and kenya, howev, more such women thought the pregnanc wa a risk to their health. 1% of women in the 2004 survei-base u.s. studi becam pregnant as a result of rape and 0.5% as a result of incest. anoth american studi in 2002 conclud that 54% of women who had an abort were us a form of contracept at the time of becom pregnant. inconsist us wa report by 49% of those us condom and 76% of those us the combin oral contracept pill; 42% of those us condom report failur through slip or breakag. the guttmach institut estim that "most abort in the unit state ar obtain by minor women" becaus minor women "have much higher rate of unintend pregnanc."

some women have an abort becaus the societi thei live in pressur them to. 

ani of these factor might forc a pregnant woman to have an abort.

induc abort is not legal in everi place. in some countri, a doctor who doe an induc abort is commit a crime. in the unit state, canada, and mani countri in europ abort is legal . in some countri like ireland and somalia it is legal onli to save the life of the woman. if a woman is rape in ireland and becom pregnant, she cannot get an induc abort. in some countri like chile and el salvador, abort is never legal, includ in case where the woman risk dy from continu the pregnanc.

in countri where induc abort is not legal mani more women die from abort. women still get induc abort, but thei cannot get them in safe hospit and clinic. these induc abort have more complic than abort done by doctor.

women who live in place where abort is illeg, or heavili frown upon sometim travel to other place where an abort can be done legal, so thei can have an abort. thi is a form of medic tourism.

 spontan abort occur in variou mammal. in sheep, it mai be caus by crowd through door, or by be chase by dog. in cow, abort mai be caus by contagi diseas, such as brucellosi or campylobact. thi can often be control by vaccin, though. 

abort mai also be induc in anim, in the context of anim husbandri. for exampl, abort mai be induc in mare that have been mate improperli, or that have been purchas by owner who did not realiz the mare were pregnant, or that ar pregnant with twin foal.

feticid can occur in hors and zebra. usual thi is done becaus male harass pregnant mare or forc copul. scientist have rais the question, how often thi occur in the wild, though. male grai langur monkei mai attack femal follow male takeov, caus miscarriag.

 induc abort is a subject that is controversi. each person ha a system of moral valu. base on their system of moral, peopl have differ opinion about it. religion can also influenc thi opinion. a number of opinion poll have been carri out around the world. thei have tri to find out what peopl think about abort. result were differ for differ countri, but also vari with the question that were ask. 

in mai 2005, a survei wa done in ten european countri. the peopl were ask, if thei could agre with the statement: "if a woman doesn't want children, she should be allow to have an abort". the highest level of approv wa 81% in the czech republ; the lowest wa 47% in poland.

a poll wa done in novemb 2001. the poll ask peopl in canada in what circumst thei believ an abort should be permit. 32% respond that thei believ abort should be legal in all circumst, 52% that it should be legal in certain circumst, and 14% that it should never be legal. a similar poll in april 2009 survei peopl in the unit state about abort; 18% said that abort should be "legal in all case", 28% said that abort should be "legal in most case", 28% said abort should be "illeg in most case" and 16% said abort should be "illeg in all case". a novemb 2005 poll in mexico found that 73.4% think abort should not be legal while 11.2% think it should.

of attitud in south america, a decemb 2003 survei found that 30% of argentin thought that abort should be allow in agentina "regardless of situat", 47% that it should be allow "under some circumst", and 23% that it should not be allow "regardless of situat". a march 2007 poll about abort in brazil found that 65% of brazilian believ that it "should not be modifi", 16% that it should be expand "to allow abort in other case", 10% that abort should be "decrimin", and 5% were "not sure". a juli 2005 poll in colombia found that 65.6% said thei thought that abort should remain illeg, 26.9% that it should be made legal, and 7.5% that thei were unsur.

 some peopl feel veri strongli about abort. peopl who think that abort is wrong and that the law should not allow it ar call pro-life. peopl who think think the law should let women choos to have abort ar call pro-choic. 

peopl who ar pro-life believ that all human, includ embryo and fetus, have a right to life. for thi reason, thei believ abort is wrong, sometim compar it to murder. thei think the law should make abort a crime in order to protect embryo and fetus. howev, though pro-life peopl think abort is wrong, there ar special case in which thei will sometim support allow an abort to happen, like if the pregnanc put the woman's life at risk or if she got pregnant from rape. pro-life peopl think women who ar pregnant and do not want to rais a child should give the babi up for adopt instead of have an abort. thei have start advocaci group, like the american life leagu, to try to convinc more peopl to think abort is wrong and to try to get govern to make law to restrict abort. sometim, peopl who ar against abort have us violenc to try to stop abort from happen, like bomb the clinic that do abort or shoot the peopl who work insid them. howev, most peopl who ar against abort do not do such thing and believ that thei ar wrong, and so thei try to stop abort from happen through peac activ.

peopl who ar pro-choic believ that women should be allow to have control over their own bodi when it come to end or continu a pregnanc. thei believ that, becaus the embryo or fetu is insid the woman's bodi and doe not have develop enough organ to surviv on it own until later in the pregnanc, it is not yet a person with right. pro-choic peopl also make the argument that abort need to be legal in order to protect women, becaus when abort is illeg, it doesn't complet stop abort from happen, but make it so that women try to do abort on themselv or get them done by peopl who ar not train doctor, which put those women in danger of death or injuri. pro-choic peopl believ the wai to prevent abort is to make sure women onli get pregnant when thei want to. in addit to advoc the legal of abort, pro-choic group like plan parenthood often try to improv peopl's access to thing us to prevent pregnanc , and try to teach young peopl about sex to reduc the number of teen pregnanc.

 mani religion have a view on abort. these view span a broad spectrum from accept to reject. most religion gener oppos abort. 

 gener, when there is a debat about whether abort law should be chang in a countri, there ar advocaci group. some of the argument these group often have ar outlin below.

 there is a hypothesi that induc abort rais the risk of get breast cancer. peopl who support thi, call it a link, rather than a hypothesi. the subject ha been controversi, but current, scientist agre that there is no link between abort in the first trimest, and increas the risk to get breast cancer.

in earli pregnanc, level of estrogen increas. thi caus the breast to grow, and to prepar for lactat. in the 1890s, studi were done on rat, befor thi hypothesi wa put forward.

 it is current unclear from what moment the embryo or fetu can feel pain. thi is also us in the debat about abort. mani research think that a fetu is unlik to feel pain until after the seventh month of pregnanc. other disagre. at about twenti-six week of pregnanc, certain connect ar made in the thalamu of the grow fetu. development neurobiologist suspect that these connect mai be critic to percept of pain by the fetu. howev, legisl ha been propos by pro-life advoc requir abort provid to tell a woman that the embryo or fetu mai feel pain dure an abort procedur. 

research from the univers of california, san francisco publish a studi in the journal of the american medic associ. the studi analyz data from dozen of medic report and other studi. the research conclud that fetus ar unlik to feel pain until the third trimest of pregnanc. howev a number of medic critic have sinc disput these conclus. there ar certain connect in the thalamu of the fetus. these connect develop at about twenti-six week of pregnanc. at the end of the 20th centuri there wa an emerg consensu among development neurobiologist that these connect ar veri import when it come to the percept of pain in the fetu. other research such as anand and fisk have challeng thi late date, posit that pain can be felt around twenti week. pain can have mani differ aspect: it might be pure reli on sensori input, but it might also involv emot and thought. for thi reason, it is perhap imposs to know exactli when the embryo or fetu feel pain, even if it ha develop the link in the thalamu.

<titl>american revolutionari war</titl>
the american revolutionari war wa a war fought between great britain and the origin 13 british coloni in america. the war took place from 1775 to 1783. the american armi , led by georg washington, and other gener, defeat the armi of the british empir. the coloni becam independ. 

the war came to be after year of problem between the british empir and the colonist of north america.there were 13 coloni altogeth. the colonist did not like mani of the action of the british govern and tax. the colonist fought to take land from the nativ but thei did not own it. thei had to pai rent to the king in london. mani colonist did not think thi wa fair. in 1765, the british parliament pass a law call the stamp act. thi law said that colonist had to bui stamp for all legal paper, newspap, and even plai card. the coloni did not follow thi law. larg group of peopl attack peopl who were even thought to have the stamp. the law wa chang in 1766. by thi time, mani colonist believ the revolut against king georg iii wa alreadi fought and won. the british sent more soldier to keep control of the coloni. in 1774, the british pass the intoler act. other battl were also fought befor the war start. the boston tea parti and boston massacr caus peopl to becom more mad about the situat.

not all colonist want to leav the british empir. the loyalist, or tori, stai loyal to great britain. thei were not go to chang their view. the patriot, who were said to have the opposit view of the loyalist, want independ.

there were mani paper written show how the colonist felt. thoma pain wrote common sens, a famou pamphlet about independ from britain. other coloni leader, such as samuel adam, benjamin franklin, john adam, and thoma jefferson want independ. but who won the war

 great britain accept the independ of the coloni. it also gave all the land it said it own which wa west of the appalachian as far as the mississippi river to the new countri. 

<titl>amper</titl>
the amper or amp is the standard unit of electr current. for instanc, an electr current of on amp is on coulomb per second. the amp is name after andré-mari ampère who studi electromagnet.

the amp is defin us two parallel wire place on metr apart in a vacuum. the wire ar veri long and veri thin. on amp is defin as the current produc an attract forc of 2×10–7 newton per metr of length between these wire.

<titl>algorithm</titl>
an algorithm is a step by step list of direct that need to be follow to solv a problem. the instruct should be simpl enough so that each step can be done without think about it. algorithm ar often us to describ how a comput might solv a problem. but there ar algorithm in the real world too. a recip can be a type of algorithm. it tell what ingredi ar need to make the dish and what step to follow. if the recip tell exactli what to do without too much confus, then it is an algorithm.

 there is usual more than on wai to solv a problem; there mai be mani differ recip to make a certain dish which look differ but end up tast the same when all is said and done. the same is true for algorithm. howev, some of these wai will be better than other. if a recip need lot of complic ingredi that you do not have, it is not as a good as a simpl recip. when we look at algorithm as a wai of solv problem, often we want to know how long it would take a comput to solv the problem us a particular algorithm. when we write algorithm, we like our algorithm to take the least amount of time so that we can solv our problem as quickli as possibl.

in cook, some recip ar more difficult to do than other, becaus thei take more time to finish or have more thing to keep track of. it's the same for algorithm, and algorithm ar better when thei ar easier for the comput to do. the thing that measur how hard an algorithm is is call complex. when we ask how complex an algorithm is, often we want to know how long it will take a comput to solv the problem we want it to solv.

these ar exampl of algorithm for sort a stack of card with mani differ number, so that the number ar in order.

player start with a stack of card that have not been sort thi algorithm goe through the stack of card, on card at a time; thi card is compar to the next card in the stack. pleas note that thi posit onli chang in step 3. thi algorithm is call bubbl sort. it is slow. 

let us take a stack of the card with the number "5 1 4 2 8", and sort it from smallest number to biggest on us thi algorithm. in each step, the algorithm compar the element written in bold. the top of the stack of card is on the left hand side.

 here, the algorithm compar the first two element, and swap them. these element ar alreadi in order, so the algorithm doe not swap them.

 now, the stack of card is alreadi sort, but our algorithm doe not know thi. the algorithm need on whole pass without ani swap to know it is sort.

 final, the arrai is sort, and the algorithm can stop.

 thi is a easi to understand algorithm for sort. comput scientist call it bubbl sort, becaus smaller element will rise to the top, chang their posit in each run. unfortun, the algorithm is not veri good, becaus it need a long time to sort it.

thi algorithm us anoth idea. sometim solv a problem is difficult, but the problem can be chang so it is made of simpler problem, that ar easier to solv. thi is call recurs. it is more difficult to understand than the first exampl, but it will give a better algorithm.

 thi work with two stack of card, on of them is call a, the other is call b. there is a third stack that is empti at the start, call c. at the end, it will contain the result.

 john von neumann develop thi algorithm in 1945. he didn't call it sort by number, he call it mergesort. it is a veri good algorithm for sort, compar to other.

the first algorithm take much longer to sort the card than the second, but it can be improv . look at bubbl sort, it can be notic that card with high number move from the top of the stack quit quickli, but card with low number, at the bottom of the stack take a long time to rise .

 thi algorithm wa develop by c. a. r. hoar in 1960. it is on of most wide us algorithm for sort todai. it is call quicksort

 if player have card with color and number on them, thei can sort them by color and number if thei do the "sort by color" algorithm, then do the "sort by number" algorithm to each color stack, then put the stack togeth.

the sort by number algorithm ar more difficult to do than the sort by color algorithm, becaus thei mai have to do the step again mani time. on would sai that sort by number is more complex.

<titl>annual plant</titl>
in botani, an annual plant is a plant that usual , flower and di in on year. true annual will onli live longer than a year if thei ar prevent from set seed. some seedless plant can also be consid annual even though thei do not flower.

in garden, annual often refer to a plant grown outdoor in the spring and summer and surviv just for on grow season. mani food plant ar, or ar grown as, annual, includ most domest grain. some perenni and biennial ar grown in garden as annual for conveni, particularli if thei ar not consid cold hardi for the local climat. carrot, celeri and parslei ar true biennial that ar usual grown as annual crop for their edibl root, petiol and leav, respect. tomato, sweet potato and bell pepper ar tender perenni usual grown as annual.

ornament annual ar often call bed plant. annual ar often us in garden to provid splash of color, as thei tend to have a longer season of bloom than hardi herbac perenni. 

exampl of true annual includ corn, lettuc, pea, cauliflow, watermelon, bean, zinnia and marigold.

 summer annual sprout, flower and die within the same spring/summer/fall. the lawn weed, crabgrass, is a summer annual

<titl>atla (disambigu)</titl>
atla, most commonli mean a collect of map, tradition bound into book form.

<titl>alexand the great</titl>
alexand the great wa a ancient macedonian king of the greek kingdom of macedon. he wa born in the citi of pella and hi father wa the king philip ii. he wa taught most of hi skill in athen dure hi childhood. he wa taught by a great teacher and world famou athenian philosoph name aristotl, and through hi teach he becam the world's first great militari command. at the ag of 20 he becam the king of macedonia, after hi father had been assassin by a former bodyguard. he is known for hi militari skill. he want to rule a larg empir call persia. he is often list as on of the greatest militari command in histori, along with hannib barca, ashoka the great, juliu caesar, genghi khan, subutai, napoleon i of franc, and other. 

by the time of hi death he had conquer most of the middl eastern world known to european, which includ ancient pakistan, persia, egypt, and asia minor. he di in babylon in 323 bc of an unknown caus. nobodi know the caus of alexand's death. some peopl have said hi death wa caus by poison in wine, murder, or fever.

<titl>asparagal</titl>
asparagal is an order of flower plant. the order must includ the famili asparagacea, but other famili includ in the order have vari markedli between differ classif. no on is sure, but it is suppos that thi group of plant evolv between late and earli cretac. but becaus of the difficult classif of the famili it's not entir certain when thei evolv.

<titl>alismatal</titl>
alismatal is an order of flower plant. the order will of necess contain the famili alismatacea.

<titl>apial</titl>
the apial ar an order of flower plant. the famili given at right ar typic of newer classif, though there is some slight variat, and in particular the torriceliacea mai be divid. these famili ar place within the asterid group of dicotyledon.

<titl>asteral</titl>
the asteral ar an order of flower plant which includ the composit famili asteracea and it relat famili.

<titl>asteroid</titl>
an asteroid is like a planet, but smaller. the name "asteroid" mean "like a star" in the ancient greek languag. asteroid mai look like small star in the sky, but thei realli do move around the sun, while star onli seem to move becaus the earth spin. like planet, asteroid do not make their own light. becaus of thi, some peopl think "asteroid" is not a good name, and think that the name "planetoid" would be a better name.

most asteroid ar made of rock, but some ar made of ic or metal. most asteroid in our solar system ar in the asteroid belt between mar and jupit.

 asteroid ar the leftov rock and other materi from the format of the solar system. these rock were too small to make a planet, and could not collid to form on. the typea of asteroid includ type m, type s, and type c.

 in the 1600s, gisupp piazzi found the first asteroid. it wa name cere, and is the biggest object in the asteroid belt. other asteroid, like juno, palla, and vesta were found later. todai, astronom know of hundr of thousand of asteroid, which rang from part of a mile to 600 mile across. 

<titl>anim</titl>
anim is japanes for "anim", or cartoon. in some place, the term anim refer to japanes anim or anim similar in style to japanes anim. but in japan, anim mean all anim in gener. thi articl is about japanes anim.

some anim is drawn by hand, but anim can also be made with comput. there ar mani type of anim; you can find anim about sport, magic, or romanc. these ar just some exampl. anim is shown on televis, on dvd and vh, and is us in comput and video game. also, some anim cartoon ar just movi, but thei have cartoon charact and anim instead of real peopl and place. anim is often base on japanes comic that ar call manga and graphic novel. sometim live action movi and televis seri ar base on an anim. 

the histori of anim begin around 1900, when japanes filmmak tri wai of anim that came from franc, germani, unit state and russia.

the filmmak in japan did not have a lot of monei to make their movi and not a lot of place where thei could film their movi. the peopl that the filmmak could us as actor in their movi wa also a problem for make japanes movi. japanes peopl look differ from peopl in other place in the world, and it wa hard for filmmak to make a movi about place other than japan with japanes actor. movi maker like anim becaus then thei could have anim draw other place and peopl that could not be film in a normal movi, and the anim could be veri creativ with the cartoon thei made.

dure the 1970s, more and more peopl start to like manga. at the same time, manga were us as the start point to make anim with the same charact and stori. anim would take the draw done by a manga artist and the stori the manga artist wrote, and turn them into the stori and charact of a similar anim. at that time osamu tezuka becam veri popular. now he is call a "legend" and the "god of manga". tezuka and other pioneer of anim made a lot of type of stori and style that ar common to anim todai. the giant robot genr began with manga and anim from tezuka's idea. robot anim like gundam and macross becam classic in the 1980s. todai, the robot genr is still veri popular in japan and worldwid. in the 1980s, anim becam veri popular in japan, and saw an increas in product. . there ar a lot of differ kind of anim that mani differ kind of peopl like besid mecha, and there ar type of anim base on the ag of the peopl who might like it or the subject of the anim.

veri popular stori in anim and manga ar often translat into other languag, and the word us in the anim or manga will be put into anoth languag where thei mean the same thing. that wai, peopl who live outsid of japan and who do not understand japanes can also understand the stori. if a manga or anim is not translat by a compani in anoth countri, sometim peopl in that countri will translat the stori to share with other peopl for free befor a compani translat it for the gener public.

in the late 1980s, lot of peopl in countri other than japan start to like anim too. in the unit state, giant robot anim becam popular. in europ, anim for children becam popular. todai, mani differ kind of anim ar popular all around the world.

<titl>ankara</titl>
ankara is the capit citi of the countri of turkei. it is locat in the center of anatolia. ankara is the second largest citi after istanbul. the citi ha a popul of 4,319,167 , and an elev of 850 m. it wa formerli known as angora or engürü, and in roman as ancyra, and in classic and hellenist period as άγκυρα ánkyra. the citi is also the capit of ankara provinc.

<titl>arab languag</titl>
arab is a semit languag, in the same famili as hebrew and arama. around 250 million peopl us it for their first languag. mani more peopl can also understand it, but not as a first languag. it is written with the arab alphabet. there ar mani differ dialect of it found around the arab world.

the languag is veri import in islam, becaus muslim believ that allah us it to talk to muhammad through the archangel gabriel jibreal, give him the quran in arab. most arab speaker ar muslim; howev, not all ar. 

in the western world, arab is also becom a popular languag to learn. mani other languag have borrow word from arab, becaus of it import in histori. some of the mani english word that can be trace to arab ar: sugar, cotton, magazin, algebra, and alcohol.

<titl>alfr hitchcock</titl>
alfr hitchcock wa a british film director who later becam an american citizen but still kept hi british citizenship. he mostli did mysteri and suspens film. he is known for appear in a veri small role in most of hi film. 

hitchcock start hi career in england, start with silent film in the 1920s. in the 1930s he made some success film like the man who knew too much , the 30 step and the ladi vanish . he then move to the unit state to work in hollywood. hi first american film wa rebecca , which won an oscar. 

some of hi best known film from the 1940s ar spellbound and notori , which wa inspir by psychoanalysi. hi first film in color wa the experiment rope . stranger on a train wa base on a novel by patricia highsmith. in the 1950s, he made three popular film with grace kelli: dial m for murder , rear window and to catch a thief . in 1956 he made a new version of the man who knew too much, star jame stewart and dori dai. he return to black-and-white with the wrong man befor make vertigo . it wa follow by three more success film: north by northwest , psycho and the bird . after that he onli made 5 more film: marni , torn curtain , topaz , frenzi and famili plot .

he also host a tv show, alfr hitchcock present.

he wa marri to alma revil, who help write some of hi film. thei had a daughter, patricia. 

<titl>anaconda</titl>
the anaconda is the on of biggest snake in the world. also known as the water boa, thi giant meat-eater live in swampi area of tropic south america. it spend a lot of time in shallow water, hidden from unsuspect prei. anaconda ar relat to boa constrictor. thei give birth to live young; 20 to 40 babi snake ar born at on time. the largest specimen measur 25 feet long and weigh 550 pound. although report of anim 35-40 feet exist, sinc no specimen of such size have been put in museum these report remain unverifi.

 anaconda ar carnivor . thei mostli hunt at night . anaconda kill by constrict the prei until it can no longer breath. sometim thei drown the prei. like all snake, thei swallow the prei whole, head first. the anaconda's top and bottom jaw ar attach to each other with stretchi ligament, which let the snake swallow anim wider than itself. snake don't chew their food, thei digest it with veri strong acid ii in the snake's stomach. anaconda eat pig, deer, caiman , bird, fish, rodent , and other anim. after eat a larg anim, the anaconda need no food for a long time, and rest for week. the young can care for themselv soon after birth, includ hunt . thei eat small rodent , babi bird, frog and small fish.

<titl>altaic languag</titl>
altaic is suggest as a languag famili. it would includ 66 languag that ar spoken by about 348 million peopl, mostli in and around central asia and northeast asia.

accord to the best-known classif of altaic, it consist of the turkic, mongol, and tungus languag famili. it is probabl fair to sai that thi is the mean attribut to "altaic" by most gener linguist. 

howev, sinc the public of gustaf john ramstedt's einführung in 1952–1957, most altaicist have includ korean in altaic. sinc the public of roi andrew miller's japanes and the other altaic languag in 1971, most have also includ japanes or better japon, consist of japanes and ryukyuan. 

a few linguist even count ainu with the altaic languag, but as part of a node includ korean and japanes, in contradistinct to a turkic-mongol-tungus node, with korean-japanes-ainu and turkic-mongol-tungus in turn form a node at a higher level . 

the core version of altaic, consist of turkic, mongol, and tungus, is sometim refer to as "micro-altaic" while the expand version, includ korean or korean and japanes, is refer to as "macro-altaic". 

<titl>aegean sea</titl>
the aegean sea is part of the mediterranean sea. it is between the greec and anatolia. it is connect to the marmara sea and the black sea by the dardanel and bosporu.

in ancient peopl thought differ about why it wa name aegean. mayb it wa name after the town of aega, or aegea, a queen of the amazon who di in the sea. mayb it wa name after aegeu, the father of theseu. legend sai that aegeu kill himself in the sea when he thought hi son wa dead.

the greek name for the sea is αἰγαῖον πέλαγος aigaion pelago, modern greek: αιγαίο πέλαγος . the turkish name is eg denizi. some peopl think that the name came from the dialect word αἶγες "wave" .

in ancient time two group of peopl live near the sea - the minoan of crete, and the mycenean of the peloponnes. the citi-state of athen and sparta came later and were part of ancient greec. persian, roman, the byzantin empir, the venetian peopl from venic, the seljuk turk, and the ottoman empir later start around the aegean sea. the peopl near the aegean were veri advanc in ancient histori and thei sail across it to talk to each other.

there ar seven group of aegean island: the thracian sea group, the east aegean group, the northern sporad, the cyclad, the saron island , the dodecanes and crete. the word archipelago us to mean these island. mani of the aegean island, or chain of island, ar part of the mountain rang on the mainland. on chain goe across the sea to chio, anoth on goe across euboea to samo, and a third on goe across the peloponnes and crete to rhode. thi on divid the aegean from the mediterranean. mani of the island have safe harbour and bai, but sail in the sea is difficult. mani of the island ar volcano, and marbl and iron ar mine on other island. the bigger island have some green vallei and plain. turkei own two big island on the aegean sea: bozcaada and gökçeada .

<titl>a clockwork orang</titl>
a clockwork orang is a violent 1962 scienc fiction book by anthoni burgess about the bitter futur when mankind is recov from the post apocalypt event which wa us by stanlei kubrick for a 1971 movi. in the movi/book thei spoke english and a dialect of russian call nadsat.

<titl>amsterdam</titl>
amsterdam is the capit and largest citi in the european countri of the netherland. amsterdam is famou for it canal and dike. unlik most other countri, the govern is not in amsterdam, but in the hagu.

amsterdam ha about 800,000 inhabit, two univers and an intern airport "schiphol airport". about 2.2 miilion peopl live in the metropolitan area. the citi of amsterdam is the world's most multi-cultur citi. it ha peopl live there from 175 differ countri.

 a dam wa built in 13th centuri in the river amstel . the old harbor of the citi, damrak, is now on of the busiest street in the citi. the citi wa for the first time mention in 1275 by king flori v who give the peopl of amsterdam a bit more freedom. the citi got it citi right probabl in 1306; at least soon after the year 1300. the citi becam a major trade port pretti soon, with a success trade rout to the baltic sea. the citi grew fast in the 15th centuri. becaus the citi basic li in swamp, the builder of the citi had to dig canal to us the dig-ground for get the live-ground higher. home were built on wooden pole, and the canal serv as a pretti effect primit sewer. 

the citi wa on the first citi in western europ to be fairli democrat: wealthi citizen chose the leader of the citi. amsterdam declar war on the spanish in 1578, dure the eighti year' war. when the citi of antwerp fell to the spanish in 1585, mani peopl of antwerp fled to amsterdam. antwerp wa also a major trade citi, and becaus mani fled to amsterdam, these peopl took their trade-network with them. that's why amsterdam becam an even more import trade citi after that. thi automat led to the dutch golden ag. the number of peopl live in amsterdam dure the war rose from less than 30,000 in 1570 to over 100,000 in 1622. that number would even rise to 200,000 near the end of the 17th centuri, make the citi a veri larg citi for it time . in the 18th centuri, the number of peopl live in amsterdam fell back to 140,000, end the golden ag. 

the 19th centuri wa the time for the first train and tram to ride in amsterdam. the first train ran from amsterdam to haarlem in 1839. the number of peopl also wa rise, with about 250,000 live in amsterdam in 1850, and more than 500,000 in 1900. amsterdam wa a heavi industrialis citi by then. befor the second world war, there were about 140,000 jew live in amsterdam. most of those peopl did not surviv the war. after the war, amsterdam becam a centr of toler and cultur; to be differ is not abnorm in amsterdam. it is expect that amsterdam will grow 12.6% until 2025. it will then hold almost 900,000 peopl, and the metropolitan area will hold almost 2.5 million peopl by then. 

<titl>audi</titl>
audi ag is a german automobil manufactur with headquart in ingolstadt, bavaria, and ha been an almost wholli own subsidiari of the volkswagen group sinc 1964.

<titl>aircraft</titl>
an aircraft is a fly machin. there ar lot of differ type of aircraft, such as aeroplan, helicopt, glider, human power aircraft, and hot air balloon.

less than 100 year ago, even the fastest ship took more than a week to cross the atlant ocean. todai most jet airlin can make thi 4,800-km journei in less than seven hour. aircraft ar the fastest wai to travel becaus thei can soar straight over obstacl such as mountain and ocean. power jet engin enabl the fastest combat aircraft to reach speed of 3,200 km/h airlin fly at more than 850 km/h . modern aircraft ar pack with advanc technolog to help fly safe and econom at great speed. sophist electron control comput-design wing help cut fuel cost. and airfram ar made of metal alloi and plastic composit that ar lightweight and strong. 

<titl>alfr nobel</titl>
alfr nobel wa a swedish scientist and weapon manufactur. he is best known for the invent of dynamit and for start the nobel prize award. he left instruct in hi will that hi monei should found the nobel prize after read an articl in a french newspap that call him the "merchant of death" and said that he would be rememb for hi invent of dynamit and it abil to kill more peopl than ever befor. he left 31 million kronor to the award. he di two week after ad the part fund the prize in hi will. the first nobel prize were for physic, chemistri, medicin, literatur and peac.

<titl>alexand graham bell</titl>
alexand graham bell wa a teacher, scientist, and inventor. he wa the founder of the bell telephon compani.

bell wa born in edinburgh, scotland. hi famili wa known for teach peopl how to speak english clearli . hi grandfath taught in china, hi uncl in dublin, and hi father, mr. alexand melvil bell, in edinburgh. hi father wrote often about thi and is most known for hi book on visibl speech. in thi, he explain a wai of teach peopl who ar deaf and mute. it show how these peopl can learn to speak word by us their ey to read what other peopl ar sai, and by watch their lip.

alexand graham bell went to the royal high school of edinburgh. he graduat at the ag of fourteen. at the ag of sixteen, he got a job as a student and teacher of elocut and music in weston hous academi, at elgin in morayshir. he spent the next year at the univers of edinburgh. while still in scotland, he becam more interest in the scienc of sound . he hope to help hi deaf mother. from 1866 to 1867, he wa a teacher at somersetshir colleg in bath, somerset. 

in 1870 when he wa 23 year old, he move with hi famili to canada where thei settl at brantford, ontario. bell began to studi commun machin. he made a piano that could be heard far awai by us electr. in 1873, he went with hi father to montreal, quebec in canada, where he took a job teach about "visibl speech". bell wa strongli dislik among women in quebec. hi father wa ask to teach about it at a larg school for deaf mute in boston, but instead he gave the job to hi son. he began teach there in 1871. alexand graham bell soon becam famou in the unit state for thi import work. he publish mani write about it in washington, d.c.. becaus of thi work, thousand of deaf mute in america ar now abl to speak, even though thei cannot hear.

in 1876, bell wa first inventor to patent the telephon and start the bell telephon compani with other in juli, 1877. in 1879, thi compani join with the new england telephon compani to form the nation bell telephon compani. in 1880, thei form the american bell telephon compani, and in 1885, american telephon and telegraph compani , still a larg compani todai. along with thoma edison, bell form the orient telephon compani on januari 25, 1881.

bell marri mabel hubbard on juli 11, 1877 who had previous hate bell. it is a surpris that thei had children. he di in baddeck, nova scotia in 1922.

 bell's geniu is seen in part by the eighteen patent grant in hi name alon and the twelv that he share with other. these includ fifteen for the telephon and telegraph, four for the photophon, on for the phonograph, five for aerial vehicl, four for hydroairplan, and two for a selenium cell.in 2002, the unit state congress rule that the italian inventor antonio meucci is the real inventor of the telephon.in 1888, he wa on of the origin member of the nation geograph societi and becam it second presid.

he wa the recipi of mani honor.

 hi past experi made him readi to work more with sound and electr. he began hi studi in 1874 with a music telegraph, in which he us an electr circuit and a magnet to make an iron reed or tongu vibrat. on dai, it wa found that a reed fail to respond to the current. mr. bell desir hi assist, who wa at the other end of the line, to pluck the reed, think it had stuck to the magnet. mr. watson compli, and to hi surpris, bell heard the correspond reed at hi end of the line vibrat and sound the same - without ani electr current to power it. a few experi soon show that hi reed had been set in vibrat by the chang in the magnet field that the move reed produc in the line. thi discoveri led him to stop us the electr batteri current. hi idea wa that, sinc the circuit wa never broken, all the complex vibrat of speech might be convert into current, which in turn would reproduc the speech at a distanc.

bell, with hi assist watson, devis a receiv, consist of a stretch film or drum with a bit of magnetis iron attach to it middl, and free to vibrat in front of the pole of an electromagnet in circuit with the line. thi apparatu wa complet on june 2, 1875. on juli 7th, he instruct hi assist to make a second receiv which could be us with the first, and a few dai later thei were tri togeth, at each end of the line, which ran from a room in the inventor's hous at boston to the cellar underneath. bell, in the room, held on instrument in hi hand, while watson in the cellar listen at the other. the inventor spoke into hi instrument, "do you understand what i sai?" and mr. watson rush back into the upstair and answer "ye." the first success two-wai telephon call wa not made until march 10, 1876 when bell spoke into hi devic, "mr. watson, come here, i want to see you." and watson answer back. the first long distanc telephon call wa made on august 10, 1876 by bell from the famili home in brantford, ontario to hi assist locat in pari, ontario, some 16 km awai.

on march 7, 1876, the u.s. patent offic gave him patent #174465 for the telephon.

 after that, bell continu hi experi in commun, which led to the invent of the photophon – send of sound on a beam of light. bell work with charl sumner tainter. in hi paper on the phonophon, bell gave credit to a. c. brown of london with the discoveri in 1878. bell and tainter, howev, were like the first to perform a success experi. it wa not an easi task, as thei had to produc selenium cell with the desir properti themselv.

in on experi in washington, d.c., the sender and the receiv were place on in differ build some 830 ft. apart. the sender had a mirror direct sunlight onto the mouthpiec, where the light beam wa chnged by a vibrat mirror. it wa focus by a len and sent at the receiv, which wa a curv mirror with the selenium cell in the focu and a telephon attach. with thi setup, bell and tainter succeed to commun clearli.

the photophon wa patent on decemb 18, 1880. howev, sinc the light beam wa not shield in ani wai against extern interfer, the qualiti of commun wa not alwai good, and it onli work within line-of-sight. it is still consid a precursor of the much later fiber optic technolog, which is base on the same idea, but remov these limit.

 bell is also credit with the invent of the metal detector in 1881. the devic wa quickli put togeth in an attempt to find the bullet in the bodi of u.s. presid jame garfield. the metal detector work, but didn't find the bullet becaus of the metal bedfram the presid wa ly on. bell gave a full descript of hi experi in a paper read befor the "american associ for the advanc of scienc" in august, 1882.

bell wa an activ support of the eugen movement in the unit state. he wa the honorari presid of the "second intern congress of eugen" held at the american museum of natur histori in new york in 1921. he didn't want deaf peopl to be allow to teach in school for the deaf. he also work to pass law that would not allow deaf peopl to marri other who were deaf. he wa also against the us of sign languag. these thing mean that he is not appreci by some deaf peopl in the present dai.

<titl>appl inc.</titl>
appl is an american compani that make comput hardwar, comput softwar, and portabl devic like mobil telephon and music player. appl call it comput macintosh or mac. their popular line of mobil music player ar call ipod and a mobil phone thei have releas is call the iphon. appl sell their product all around the world. appl inc. us to be call appl comput, inc.

 appl wa start in 1976 by steve job and steve wozniak. befor thei made the compani, thei sold "blue box", which had telephon button on them. peopl could us them to make telephon call from pai phone without pai ani monei. the compani's first product is now call the appl i comput. thei were almost readi to sell it, but a problem happen. steve wozniak wa work for the comput compani hewlett-packard, and the paper that said he could work there said he had to give everyth he invent to the compani befor he could do what he want to do with it. he show the first appl i to the boss at hewlett-packard, but thei did not want hi comput. wozniak wa free to do what he want to do with the appl i. it wa sold in 1976. in 1977 thei made their second comput, call the appl ii.

on of the most popular product made by appl is the ipod. it wa introduc in 2001, and appl sold over 100 million in six year. all ipod can plai music, and newer on with screen can displai pictur and plai video. there ar sever differ type of ipod.

 the red ipod shuffl and ipod nano model ar part of the " red" program. thi mean that some of the monei us to purchas these ipod goe to the global fund to fight aid in africa.

comput ar what appl is known for. comput by appl run the mac os x oper system, which is includ with everi new mac.

 appl also make softwar for their comput. some of the softwar that appl make is:

most comput user in the world us microsoft window, the rival to mac os x. about 8% of comput user us appl's macintosh comput. it is not legal to run appl's mac os x on a window comput. howev, it is allow to run window on modern macintosh comput. even though appl make their comput to run mac os x, thei also make softwar that allow you to instal window. thi softwar is call boot camp.

 the appl tv is a box that plug into a tv. it can connect wirelessli to ani comput that ha the appl program itun on it. the appl tv can plai music, and show photo or video from itun on your tv. it come in two kind:

 the iphon is a phone, ipod, and more with a touch screen. the newest iphon releas us 3g to surf the web. a new version, the iphon 3gs boast much faster applic launch and a video record function. the iphon come in 8gb, 16gb, and 32gb type. the iphon 3g come in black and white the new price for the iphon 3g 8gb is $199 and 16gb is $299. thi new version wa releas on juli 11, 2008. the price in the uk where releas for o2 pai and go on 2nd septemb 2008. the price of the 8gb version is £350 and the 16gb is £399 to bui the phone without a plan. the uk version wa releas on the 16th septemb 2008.

 follow sever campaign , appl ha made their product greener. recent, the new notebook line remov mani toxin and improv the product batteri life and recharg cycl.

 sinc format of the appl comput compani in 1977, appl ha emploi over 75,000 peopl worldwid. the major of appl's employe have been locat in the unit state but appl ha substanti manufactur, sale, market, and support organ worldwid, with some engin oper in pari and tokyo.

appl employe includ employe of compani appl own, and less import, but still relev compani such as filemak inc. and braeburn capit.

 appl corp ha repeatedli su appl inc. for trademark infring. in the first case, appl inc. agre not to go into the music industri. appl corp believ thi agreement wa broken when appl inc. launch itun, the music store.

<titl>aberdeenshir</titl>
aberdeenshir is the name of both a counti and of on of the 32 unitari council area in scotland. the two ar not the same area.

aberdeenshir stretch from the east coast of scotland up into the mountain. it is between kincardineshir and angu and banffshir . aberdeen is the counti town.

aberdeenshir is mainli countrysid and mountain, except in aberdeen. aberdeen is on of britain's richest town becaus it serv the north sea oil rig.

fraserburgh is a larg fish port.

the aberdeenshir council area take in the histor counti of aberdeenshir and kincardineshir and half of banffshir. it doe not includ aberdeen citi though, which is a council area in it own right. howev, aberdeenshir council doe have it headquart at woodhil hous, in aberdeen; the onli scottish council whose headquart ar base outwith it area's border.

aberdeenshir border angu and perth and kinross to the south, and highland and morai to the west. 

<titl>american civil war</titl>
the american civil war wa fought from 1861 to 1865 in the unit state. eleven southern slave state declar their independ from the unit state to protect slaveri, and join togeth as the confeder state of america . the csa fought against "the union", which wa the u.s. feder govern support by all the state that did not declar their independ. the union state were all those in which slaveri wa not legal and five state in which slaveri wa legal . the unit state did not recogn the confeder claim of independ, nor did ani other nation. fight start when the confeder bombard a union fort within the territori claim by the confederaci. the war wa fought mostli in the south, and becaus both side were american, wa on of the deadliest in u.s. histori. the union won the war, result in the end of slaveri in the unit state.

 there were mani caus of the civil war, and some start long ago in the first american coloni. on big issu wa state' right, while anoth wa slaveri.

slaveri in the unit state first began in virginia in 1619. by the end of the american revolut, most northern state had abandon the institut while it continu to grow and flourish in the plantat economi of the south. in the year prior to the civil war almost all section conflict revolv around the slave issu. thi began with the debat over the three-fifth claus at the constitut convent of 1787 and continu with the compromis of 1820, the nullif crisi, the anti-slaveri gag rule, and the compromis of 1850.

 throughout the first half of the 19th centuri, southern politician sought to defend slaveri by retain control of the feder govern. while thei benefit from most presid be from the south, thei were particularli concern about retain a balanc of power within in the senat. as new state were ad to the union, a seri of compromis were arriv at to maintain an equal number of "free" and "slave" state.

in 1820, main enter as a free state while missouri join as a slave state. the balanc wa final disrupt in 1850, when southern permit california to enter as a free state in exchang for law strengthen slaveri. thi balanc wa further upset with the addit of free minnesota and oregon .

the widen of the gap between slave and free state wa symbol of the chang occur in each region. while the south wa devot to an agrarian plantat economi with a slow growth in popul, the north had embrac industri, larg urban area, infrastructur growth, as well as wa experienc high birth rate and a larg influx of european immigr. thi boost in popul doom southern effort to maintain balanc in the govern as it meant the futur addit of more free state and the elect of a northern, potenti anti-slaveri, presid.

the polit issu that final move the nation toward conflict wa that of slaveri in the western territori won dure the mexican-american war. a similar issu had been dealt with earlier, in 1820, when, as part of the missouri compromis, slaveri wa permit in the louisiana purchas south of 36°30'n latitud . rep. david wilmot attempt to prevent slaveri in the new territori in 1846, when he introduc the wilmot proviso in congress. after extens debat it wa defeat, but it gave rise to a polit movement call the "free soil parti".

in 1850, an attempt wa made to resolv the issu. a part of compromis of 1850 call for slaveri in the unorgan land receiv from mexico to be decid by popular sovereignti. thi meant that the local peopl and their territori legislatur would decid for themselv whether slaveri would be permit. mani thought that thi decis had solv the issu until it wa rais again in 1854 with the passag of the kansa-nebraska act.

propos by sen. stephen dougla of illinoi, the kansa-nebraska act essenti repeal the line impos by the missouri compromis. dougla, an ardent believ in grassroot democraci, felt that all the territori should be subject to popular sovereignti. seen as a concess to the south, the act led to an influx of pro- and anti-slaveri forc into kansa. oper from rival territori capit, the "free stater" and "border ruffian" engag in open violenc for three year.

though pro-slaveri forc from missouri had openli and improperli influenc elect in the territori, presid jame buchanan accept their lecompton constitut, and offer it to congress for statehood. thi wa turn down by congress which order a new elect. in 1859, the anti-slaveri wyandott constitut wa accept by congress. the fight in kansa further heighten tension between north and south.

for some decad, when new state were admit to the union, congress ensur that the number of free state wa kept in balanc with the number of slave state, thu keep the vote in the senat balanc. the south wa abl to control congress, and exert a power influenc on both the white hous and the suprem court. the mexican-american war wa begun in 1846 to secur land claim by texa when it wa annex to the unit state in 1845 as a slave state, and a disput start over whether the addit land won in the war with mexico would also allow slaveri. the kansa-nebraska act of 1854 repeal the 1820 missouri compromis and the compromis of 1850, allow all territori to decid for themselv whether to allow slaveri or not. bloodi battl broke out in kansa as slave-owner tri to ensur that when kansa becam a state, it would be a slave state. the admiss of kansa wa delai becaus of disput over whether it would have a slave or free constitut.

after the admiss of texa as a free state in 1845, the next five state were all admit as free state, give the free state greater represent in the senat. furthermor, the popul in the north wa increas much more quickli than in the south, and the north thu gain greater represent in the hous of repres and in the elector colleg. lincoln wa abl to be elect presid without even be on the ballot in 10 southern state, and the south wa face a futur in which it would be in a perman minor posit.

some abolitionist did want the feder govern to act to end slaveri in the state, but lincoln and moder republican agre that the feder govern wa constitution prevent from abolish slaveri in state in which it alreadi wa legal. the chief controversi at the time wa over whether or not the feder govern could outlaw slaveri in the territori that were not yet state. support of slaveri argu that, under the tenth amend, the feder govern could not stop slavehold from take their "properti" into ani new territori. some extend thi argument, sai slave "properti" could even be taken into those state where slaveri wa alreadi outlaw. the fugit slave act of 1850 oblig northern to assist in the return of suspect fugit slave. 

southern recogn that control of the govern wa slip awai from them, and becam convinc that the north wa intent on end slaveri. even if the feder govern took no action to abolish slaveri in the state in which it alreadi exist, both side believ that slaveri would eventu die out if it were not allow to expand. southern believ that the onli wai thei could preserv slaveri wa to withdraw from the unit state. thei argu that each state had a right to withdraw from the nation, even if the other state did not consent. befor lincoln wa inaugur, seven southern slave state declar their secess from the unit state.

the issu of slaveri wa further heighten by the rise of the abolitionist movement in the 1820s and 1830s. begin in the north, adher believ that slaveri wa moral wrong rather than simpli a social evil. abolitionist rang in their belief from those who thought that all slave should be freed immedi to those call for gradual emancip , to those who simpli want to stop the spread of slaveri and it influenc .

abolitionist campaign for the end of the "peculiar institut" and support anti-slaveri caus such as the free state movement in kansa. upon the rise of the abolitionist, an ideolog debat aros with the southern regard the moral of slaveri with both side frequent cite biblic sourc. in 1852, the abolitionist caus receiv increas attent follow the public of the anti-slaveri novel uncl tom's cabin. written by harriet beecher stow, the book aid in turn the public against the fugit slave act of 1850.

john brown first made a name for himself dure the "bleed kansa" crisi. a fervent abolitionist, brown, along with hi son, fought with anti-slaveri forc and were best known for the "pottawatomi massacr" where thei kill five pro-slaveri farmer. while most abolitionist were pacifist, brown advoc violenc and insurrect to end the evil of slaveri.

in octob 1859, financ by the extrem wing of the abolitionist movement, brown and eighteen men attempt to raid the govern armori at harper's ferri, va. believ that the nation's slave were readi to rise up, brown attack with the goal of obtain weapon for the insurrect. after initi success, the raider were corner in the armori's engin hous by local militia. shortli thereaft, us marin under lt. col. robert e. lee arriv and captur brown. tri for treason, brown wa hang that decemb. befor hi death, he predict that "the crime of thi guilti land will never be purg awai; but with blood."

the tension between north and south were mirror in a grow schism in the nation's polit parti. follow the compromis of 1850 and the kansa-nebraska act, the nation's two major parti, the whig and democrat, began to fractur along region line. in the north, the whig larg blend into a new parti: the republican. form in 1854, as an anti-slaveri parti, the republican offer a progress vision for the futur that includ an emphasi on industri, educ, and homestead. though their presidenti candid, john c. frémont, wa defeat in 1856, the parti poll strongli in the north and show that it wa the northern parti of the futur. in the south, the republican parti wa view as a divis element and on that could lead to conflict. southern whig instead turn to the "know-noth" parti, a refer to it secret meet, which did not oppos slaveri. 

with the divis of the democrat into northern and southern wing, there wa much apprehens as the elect 1860 approach. the lack of a candid with nation appeal signal that chang wa come. repres the republican wa abraham lincoln, while stephen dougla stood for the northern democrat. their counterpart in the south nomin john c. breckinridg. look to find a compromis, former whig and know-noth in the border state creat the constitut union parti and nomin john c. bell.

ballot unfold along precis section line as lincoln won the north, breckinridg won the south, and bell won the border state. dougla claim missouri and part of new jersei. the north, with it grow popul and increas elector power had accomplish what the south had alwai fear: complet control of the govern by the free state.

in respons to lincoln's victori, south carolina open a convent to discuss seced from the union. on decemb 24, 1860, it adopt a declar of secess and withdrew it repres from congress. through the "secess winter" of 1861, it wa follow by mississippi, florida, alabama, georgia, louisiana, and texa. as more state declar their secess, local forc took control of feder fort and instal within their border without ani resist from the buchanan administr. the most egregi act took place in texa, where gen. david e. twigg surrend on-quarter of the entir stand us armi without a shot fire. when lincoln final enter offic on march 4, 1861, he inherit a collaps nation.

 the confeder state claim ownership of all fort and other feder build within their territori. fort sumter in south carolina remain in union hand. on april 12, 1861, confeder forc bombard and forc the surrend of union forc insid the fort. follow thi, presid lincoln call for volunt from each state to take back the captur fort, defend washington, d.c., and suppress the rebellion. swiftli four more state join with the confeder rather than suppli forc to suppress them.

there were two import area where the american civil war wa fought - in the west and in the east. 

in the eastern area, there wa the us capit, washington d.c., and the confeder capit, richmond, virginia. these two citi ar onli about 90 mile apart. in thi area, the confeder militari leader from 1862 until the end of the war wa robert e. lee. lee wa a great gener, and won mani battl. mani time, hi action prevent the smaller number of confeder troop from be badli beaten or destroi by the union troop. even though the north had more soldier, thei could not captur richmond until the end of the war in 1865. 

in the western area, there wa the great river, the mississippi. ulyss s. grant won mani battl here. on of the earliest battl to take place in the western area wa the battl of shiloh. the north captur almost all the citi on the mississippi river, but the confederaci still held vicksburg, an import citi and fort. on the 4th of juli, 1863, follow a long sieg, vicksburg surrend to grant. thi divid the confederaci into two. thi victori is consid to be on of the turn point of the war.

there were also battl west of the mississippi river, in the area call the tran-mississippi. two battl which ar consid import ar the battl of wilson's creek and the battl of pea ridg. after the union captur vicksburg, thi area becam isol from the rest of the south.

anoth major turn point occur at about the same time in the east. after sever victori, gener lee decid to invad the north. lee and hi armi of northern virginia went into pennsylvania. the confeder armi met the union armi near gettysburg, pennsylvania. the battl of gettysburg wa fought over a three dai period, juli 1-3 in 1863. the invas wa stop by grant, and lee and the confeder armi were push back to the south. 

lincoln decid that ulyss s. grant wa hi best gener. he put grant in control of all the union armi, and made william t. sherman gener of armi in georgia. while grant attack lee again and again, sherman burn atlanta and savannah. lee held out time and time again, but eventu the number of union soldier wa too much for the smaller confeder armi. lee decid he had too few soldier to keep on fight and he surrend to grant on april 9, 1865, near appomattox court hous.

follow lee's surrend, mani other confeder armi surrend as well. the last confeder gener to surrend wa brigadi gener stand wati on june 23 in oklahoma. some confeder did not want to becom part of the unit state again; these peopl move to mexico and brazil.

 inflat occur on both side. the price on everyth were rais, and caus peopl in both the north and the south to go hungri if thei could not afford the newli price food. thi suffer wa an import factor in the south's surrend.

 mani soldier di for both side dure the war. the south wa hurt the most becaus most of the war wa fought there. the south's economi wa hurt veri badli, too. the union armi stai in some southern state for mani year. thi time is call "reconstruct". reconstruct end in 1877.

also, soon after the war, sever constitut amend were made by the us govern and pass with enough support from the peopl. slaveri wa end by the 13th amend. the 14th amend make it clear that all peopl born in the unit state ar citizen with equal right that cannot be taken awai unless thei do someth against the law. the 15th amend sai that peopl in the unit state cannot be kept from vote becaus of their race. other fact ar that gener grant, hay, garfield, harrison, and mckinlei becam presid or ran for the offic.

<titl>andi warhol</titl>
andi warhol wa on of the most famou american artist of the later half of the 20th centuri. he wa born in pittsburgh, pennsylvania. he origin work as a commerci artist. he design thing like advertis and window displai for store. he soon becam an artist, and wa famou for be an artist in the pop art movement, in which everydai object and media imag were us. on of hi most famou paint is hi colour portrait of american movi star, marilyn monro.after she di he wa deepli move and want to creat a memorbila of somesort.hi recreat or reonov of her from afar show astonish beauti but if you look close you will see it look a bit distort it look like it wa coluor in by a child it scarc resembl a mask. on marilyn wore to conceal the real her a sad,troulb woman. the intens and densiti of andi's sklill in portrai someth like thi would never be forgotten warhol graduat from the carnegi instutut of technolog befor move to new york. hi first big break wa in august of 1949 when he wa ask to illustr an articl in glamour magazin. he drop the 'a' from the end of hi name when the credit read "draw by andrew warhol". warhol wa also famou for paint campbel and watti soup can. he paint about 300 differ paint.

warhol di in new york citi ag 58 in hi appart after an oper on hi gallbladd.

<titl>american film institut</titl>
the american film institut is an independ, organ that is design not to make monei creat by the nation endow for the art, which wa start in 1967 when presid lyndon b. johnson sign the nation foundat on the art and the human act.

georg steven, jr. wa the first ceo. sinc 1980, jean picker firstenberg ha been ceo.

older figur in afi's conservatori train newer peopl.

the institut also want to keep old film, which could soon be destroi.

even though it name onli mention film, afi also work on televis and video.

in 1973, the afi began hand out life achiev award.

in 1998, when american cinema had exist for 100 year, afi began it 100 year seri, which help peopl becom interest in the histori of movi.

recent, it built and start the afi silver theatr in silver spring, maryland near washington, d.c.

<titl>akira kurosawa</titl>
akira kurosawa wa a japanes film director. kurosawa's film ar like in japan. kurosawa's film ar also like by peopl in other countri. he made 30 film in 50 year. he is thought to be on of the most import film director.

in mani of hi famou movi, includ rashomon and the seven samurai, he work with the actor toshiro mifun.

<titl>ancient egypt</titl>
ancient egypt or the egyptian empir wa a societi that began about 3,500 bc and last until 20 bc when it wa invad by the roman empir. it grew along the river nile and wa it most power in the second millennium bc. at on time it went all the wai from the nile delta to a resourc, especi the water from the nile so that the egyptian could have good crop. it is known for creat a wai of write call hieroglyph, make big templ and tomb, trade with other area, and it power militari. the religion of egypt wa base on respect for their ruler and their past. ancient egypt wa the proud holder of over 200 god/goddess.

 archaeologist, or peopl who dig in the earth to find ancient object, have found that peopl have live along the nile for a veri long time. the fertil flood plain of the nile allow peopl to begin farm. by the 10th millennium bc, the peopl in egypt had begun grow cereal grain like wheat and barlei and becaus thei were farm, thei stai in on place. becaus thei were settl, societi becam more complex and involv. thi wa an import step in the histori of human civil.

the period dure which mani anim would have been first domest. thi period in egyptian histori is call predynast, as it happen befor the larg kingdom were form.

by about 5500 bc, small tribe live in the nile vallei had develop into a seri of cultur. each had begun farm both crop and anim. thei had their own type of potteri and person item, such as comb, bracelet, and bead. in upper egypt, the north part of the countri, the badari wa on of the biggest group. it wa known for it high qualiti potteri, stone tool, and it us of copper. thei were follow by the amratian and gerzian cultur. thei had improv tool and other new idea. in gerzian time, the peopl were make contact with palestin and the byblo coast .

the wai archaeologist and historian keep track of the year of egypt is us "regnal year", or the year that a pharaoh rule. the differ period ar:

 ancient egypt wa split up into mani differ district call sepat. the first divis were creat dure the predynast period, but then, thei were small citi-state that rule themselv. when the first pharaoh came to power, the sepat remain and were much like the counti in todai's england. thei stai basic the same for a veri long time - there were 42 of them, and each wa rule by a governor call a nomarch. thi person wa put in power by the pharaoh.

ancient egypt had a lot of differ tax, but there wa no real monei, so peopl paid each other with good or work. the person who watch the tax collect wa call the scribe, and everi tax collector in egypt had to tell him everi dai how mani tax thei had collect. each person paid differ tax base on the work that thei did: craftsmen paid in good, hunter and fishermen paid with food, and everi singl household in the countri had to pai a labour tax everi year by help with work for the countri like mine or for canal. a lot of rich egyptian paid poorer peopl to do thi for them.

egyptian had mostli cow for food.

egypt had write call hieroglyph which is the oldest written languag. egyptologist, or peopl who studi ancient egypt, call the write of egypt "hieroglyph." it is like japanes or chines becaus it start out as ideograph languag, or write made of pictur of the word. egyptian is differ from a lot of languag becaus it ha no vowel - all sound ar conson, or letter that aren't vowel. there ar 24 sound in the languag.the hieroglyph can be divid into six time period:

religion wa veri import to ancient egyptian. to egyptian, all african anim were holi and were worship. becaus of thi, egyptian domest, or made pet of, anim veri earli and took veri good care of them. the centr of ani egyptian town wa the templ, and thi build wa us for everyth from the town hall to a univers in addit to it religi servic. 

becaus thei were so religi, egyptian creat a lot of art of their god. thi art show all differ kind of divin, or holi, creatur includ the pharaoh, who wa thought to be a god. 

the afterlif wa also veri import to egyptian and thei ar known for mummifi their dead. these mummi ar import to scientist todai becaus thei tell them about how the egyptian live.

 ancient egyptian had veri advanc medic knowledg for their time. thei perform surgeri, set broken bone and even knew about medicin. some medicin the ancient egyptian us ar honei and breast milk or gazel's milk. not onli did thei have medicin valu, thei also ar believ to have been us to ward off evil spirit and demon. the easiest wai to see how good thei were at medicin is to look at mummi, becaus it show that the doctor could remov organ without ruin the bodi. becaus of thi, also, we know that egyptian knew a lot about how the human bodi is laid out.

 engin wa a veri specialis art in egypt. engin were abl to survei, or find the area between two point, make veri complic structur call pyramid that were nearli perfect geometr, creat cement, and make larg irrig network. there is even the belief that ancient egyptian creat a kind of batteri.

scienc wa also veri import. some believ that the begin of the modern scientif method can be found in egypt. mathemat were also in us in egypt, and the golden ratio wa even us in the construct of the pyramid.

anoth famou abil of the egyptian wa glassmak. archaeologist have found mani piec of bead, jar, figur and ornament in tomb across the nation. in 2005, there wa even the discoveri of an ancient glassmak factori.

<titl>abba</titl>
abba wa a swedish pop music group, who had mani hit in the 1970s and earli 1980s. the name "abba" is made from the first letter of each member's first name:

abba becam veri popular after thei won the eurovis song contest in 1974. thei had mani hit. these includ "danc queen", "so", "mamma mia", and "waterloo". most of their song were written by ulvaeu and andersson.

thei broke up in 1982, but their music is still popular. it ha appear in movi and the music mamma mia!.

<titl>anna kournikova</titl>
anna sergeevna kournikova is a russian model and retir profession tenni player. she ha won two grand slam doubl tournament, both with swiss player martina hingi. in 1999, the women's tenni associ said she wa the best doubl player in the world. she ha also plai tenni for russia in an intern competit call the fed cup.

kournikova plai in her last grand slam tournament in 2009. sinc then she ha model cloth and plai in exhibit tenni match. although she wa born in russia, she live in miami, florida in the unit state. she ha appear in sever advertis mainli about tenni. as of juli 2008, her boyfriend is spanish singer enriqu iglesia.

 kournikova wa born in moscow in the union of soviet socialist republ sinc 1981. her mother is call alla and her father is call sergei. she first pick up a tenni racket when she wa five year old and join the spartak tenni club. she improv veri much and when she wa 10 year old she move to florida to train at an academi.

in 2000, it wa report that she wa go to marri russian nhl player pavel bure. anoth russian ic hockei player, sergei fedorov, who plai for the detroit red wing said that he had marri kournikova in 2001, but thei divorc later that year. in 2002, she wa in a music video with enriqu iglesia for hi song escap. she wa iglesia's girlfriend after thi video, but said later that she did not want to get marri. iglesia said she kept sai no when he would ask marri him. he said "i alwai try, but she doesn't want to." kournikova ha said that she is not interest in get marri: "i'm never get marri. everyth is good."

in 2002, she wa the second most popular athlet search for on googl, and wa vote the "sexiest woman in the world" by fhm reader. howev, some expert work for espn vote her the 18th biggest sport failur from 1979 to 2004.

it is thought kournikova ha been paid about £50 million in her career as of 2007, but most of thi did not come from tenni. she said "you cannot just be a great tenni player or just be a beauti person to succe in the game ani more. you have to have it all: the talent, the look, the brain and the drive."

 kournikova hold her racket in her right hand but us both hand when she plai backhand shot. she is a good player at the net. she ha sever differ type of shot, some of which ar her hard shot from the back of the court and drop shot which land just over the net.

kournikova becam a profession tenni player in octob of 1995 when she wa 14-year-old. in 1996, the wta gave her a prize for be the best new player in the world. she won the first of her 16 wta tour doubl titl in septemb of 1998 in tokyo, in japan. her partner for the victori wa american player monica sele. after thi, kournikova will often plai her doubl match with swiss player martina hingi. she finish the year in the top 20 women tenni player in the world. in 1999, the pair won five doubl tournament, on of which wa the australian open, and thei came second in the french open. that year, the wta gave them an award for be the best doubl pair in the world. kournikova won six doubl tournament in 2000, four of them with hingi.

in 2001, kournikova suffer an injuri to her foot which meant she wa unabl to plai in mani tournament that year. she got better and won the doubl tournament at the australian open in 2002, again with hingi. other injuri like a bad back meant that in 2003, kornikova plai veri few tournament and said "i do not want to go on plai unless i can particip 100%".

kournikova also plai tenni for russia in the fed cup. she plai both singl and doubl and won 12 out of 19 match between 1996 and 2000.

the follow tabl show how far kournikova progess in each of the grand slam singl tournament she ha plai in.

 kournikova won two doubl tournament. she won the 1999 australian open with swiss player martina hingi when thei defeat lindsai davenport and natasha zvereva. kournikova and hingi won the 2002 australian open, when thei defeat daniela hantuchová and arantxa sánchez vicario. thei were also runner-up in the 1999 french open where thei lost to american pair venu and serena william. at the end of 1999, kournikova wa the best doubl player in the world.

kournikova ha also plai mix doubl. she wa runner-up with swede jona björkman in 1999 at the wimbledon championship. she also finish runner-up with max mirnyi from belaru in the 2000 us open.

the follow tabl is a summari of the women's tenni associ and grand slam tournament won by kournikova.

 kournikova began to be a model while she wa still plai tenni. when she lost in the first round at wimbledon in 2002, she had an interview with a report from the bbc. the report suggest that her model wa make her concentr less on tenni. thi upset her and she nearli walk out of the interview. she said she wa "100% commit to tenni".

kournikova endors a video game call "anna kournikova's smash court tenni" for the soni playstat in 1999. she wa also sponsor by sportswear manufactur adida and sport bra manufactur berlei. she made more than ten time as much monei from her sponsor than from plai tenni that year. she made a £7 million agreement to be in an advertis campaign for internet compani lyco. in 2002, adida said thei were worri she wa not concentr on tenni enough. 

as of juli 2008, she is sponsor by sportswear manufactur k-swiss.

<titl>agnostic</titl>
agnostic is a type of philosoph view about the exist of a god, or god. some peopl who call themselv "agnost" sai that it is not possibl to know if there is, or is not, a god/god in the univers. other agnost, though, sai onli that thei themselv current do not know if there is a god/god. in fact, there ar mani differ kind of agnostic:

peopl often have difficulti tell agnostic and atheism apart. atheist don't have a belief in the exist of deiti, and some claim to be quit sure that no deiti exist. some atheist though state that it is up to theist or those who believ in a deiti to give the evid for a god or to show why someon should believ in a god. thei state that without evid there is no reason to believ in a god. agnost sai thei do not know if ani deiti exist, but some believ a deiti doe exist anywai. some peopl ar both atheist and agnost--thei reject belief in deiti without claim to know that deiti do not exist.

<titl>argon</titl>
argon is a chemic element. the symbol for argon is ar, and it atom number is 18. it is a nobl ga and no electron or proton can be lost or gain from thi atom.

argon atom ar found in air. about 1% of the earth's atmospher is argon.

<titl>arsen</titl>
arsen is chemic element 33 on the period tabl. it symbol is as.

arsen is an element that is known as a metalloid. it can act like a metal and a nonmet at differ time. it doe not conduct electr veri well , but it is a semiconductor. thi mean that arsen can be us in comput to make them faster.

most peopl know about arsen becaus it is danger. arsen is toxic and can kill a person if thei get too much of it. thi realli onli happen when a person get poison becaus there is not enough of it in our food to actual hurt us. sometim there is too much arsen in water, and the govern tri to make sure that it is remov befor peopl drink the water. even so, some peopl believ that we need an extrem small amount of arsen to make sure that our bodi work right. we get all of the arsen that we might need from our food. 

<titl>antimoni</titl>
antimoni is a chemic element. it ha the chemic symbol sb. the symbol sb is from the latin name for the element of 'stibium.' the mean of stibium is "mark." it ha the atom number 51. it is a metalloid. antimoni ha four allotrop. the stabl allotrop of antimoni is a blue-white metal. yellow and black antimoni ar unstabl non-metal.

antimoni is us in flame-proof, paint, ceram, enamel, mani differ alloi, electron and rubber.

<titl>actinium</titl>
actinium is chemic element 89 on the period tabl. it symbol is ac. actinium's mass is 227 g/mol. 

actinium is a silver radioactivesolid metal. it is so radioact that it glow in the dark. even a small amount of actinium is danger to peopl.

actinium wa discov in 1899 by andré-loui debiern, a french chemist.

<titl>americium</titl>
americium is a chemic element. it is a radioact metal. it ha the chemic symbol am. it ha the atom number 95. in chemistri it is place in a group of metal element name the actinid. americium is a transuran element. it is a radioact element that doe not exist in natur. americium ha to be made. it ha a silver color. americium is made by bombard a plutonium target with neutron. americium is name after america, 

it wa the fourth transuran element to be discov. it wa name for the america, like europium wa name for europ.

americium is us in most smoke detector. the level of radioact is not enough to caus cancer, so it is safe to us.

<titl>astatin</titl>
astatin is a chemic element. it atom number is 85, and it atom weight is 210. it is part of the group 7 on the period tabl of element. some of it isotop mai be in natur, but becaus it is extrem unstabl, onli about an ounc exist at on point in time. it is radioact, the longest-live 210at ha a half-life of a bit over 8 hour.

<titl>atom</titl>
an atom is a basic unit that make up all matter. there ar mani differ type of atom each with it own name, mass and size. these ar call chemic element, such as hydrogen or gold. atom ar veri small, the exact size chang depend on the element - thei rang from 0.1 to 0.5 nanomet. on nanomet is around a hundr time smaller than the width of a human hair. thi make atom almost imposs to see. the manner in which thei work, and how thei interact with each other ha to be investig us equat. the field of physic that is concern with thi is call quantum physic. 

atom combin to make molecul or particl, for exampl two hydrogen atom and on oxygen atom combin to make a water molecul, a form of a chemic reaction. atom themselv ar made up of three kind of smaller particl, call proton, neutron and electron, respect. the proton and neutron ar in the middl of the atom. thei ar call the nucleu. the nucleu is surround by a cloud of electron with a neg charg which ar bound to nucleu by an electromagnet forc. proton and neutron ar made up of even smaller particl call quark. electron ar elementari or fundament particl; thei cannot be split into smaller part. the number of proton, neutron and electron an atom ha determin what element it is. hydrogen, for exampl, ha on proton, no neutron and on electron; the element sulfur ha 16 proton, 16 neutron and 16 electron.

atom move faster when in ga form than liquid and solid matter. in solid materi the atom ar tightli next to each other so thei vibrat, not ar not abl to move unlik liquid doe.

 the word "atom" come from the greek ἀτόμος, indivis, from ἀ-, not, and τόμος, a cut. the first histor mention of the word atom came from work by the greek philosoph democritu, around 400bc. atom theori stai as a mostli philosoph subject, with not much actual scientif investig or studi, until the develop of chemistri in the 1600's. in 1777 french chemist antoin lavoisi defin the term element for the first time. he said that an element wa ani basic substanc that could not be broken down into other substanc by the method of chemistri. ani substanc that could be broken down wa a compound.

in 1803 english philosoph john dalton suggest that element were tini, solid sphere made of atom. dalton believ that all atom of the same element have the same mass. he said that compound ar form when atom of more than on element combin. accord to dalton, in a compound, atom of differ element alwai combin the same wai.

in 1827 british scientist robert brown look at pollen grain in water and us dalton's atom theori to describ pattern in the wai thei move. thi wa call brownian motion. in 1905 albert einstein us mathemat to prove that the seemingli random movement were down to the reaction of atom, and by do so he conclus prove the exist of the atom. in 1869 scientist dmitri mendeleev publish the first version of the period tabl. the period tabl group atom by their atom number . element in the same column, or period, usual have similar properti. for exampl helium, neon, argon, krypton and xenon ar all in the same column and have veri similar properti. all these element ar gase that have no colour and no smell. togeth thei ar known as the nobl gase.

the physicist j.j. thomson wa the first man to discov electron, while he wa work with cathod rai in 1897. he realiz thei had a neg charg, unlik proton and neutron . thomson creat the plum pud model, which state that an atom wa like plum pud: the dri fruit were stuck in a mass of pud . in 1909 a scientist name ernest rutherford us the rutherford experi to prove that electron ar veri small compar to proton and neutron. rutherford took a photo plate and surround it with gold foil, and then shot alpha particl at it. mani of the particl went through the gold foil, which prove that atom ar mostli empti space. electron ar so small thei make up onli 1% of an atom mass. 

in 1913, niel bohr introduc the bohr model. thi model show that electron orbit the nucleu in fix circular orbit. thi wa more accur than the rutherford model. howev, it wa still not complet right. improv to the bohr model have been made sinc it wa first introduc.

in 1925 chemist frederick soddi found that some element in the period tabl had more than on kind of atom. for exampl an atom with 2 proton should be a helium atom. howev some helium atom have three neutron as well. thi mean thei ar still helium, as the element is defin by the number of proton, but thei ar not normal helium either. soddi call an atom like thi, with a differ number of neutron, an isotop. to get the name of the isotop we look at how mani neutron it ha and add thi to the name of the element. so a helium atom with three neutron is call helium-3, and a carbon atom with twelv neutron instead of six is call carbon-12. howev when he develop hi theori soddi could not be certain neutron actual exist. to prove thei were real physicist jame chadwick and a team of other creat the mass spectromet. the mass spectromet actual measur the mass and weight of individu atom. by do thi chadwick prove that to account for all the weight of the atom, neutron must exist. 

in 1937 german chemist otto hahn becam the first person to creat nuclear fission in a laboratori. he discov thi by chanc when he wa shoot neutron at a uranium atom, hope to creat a new isotop. howev he notic that instead of a new isotop the uranium simpli chang into a barium atom. thi wa the world first record nuclear fission reaction. thi discoveri eventu led to the creation of the atom bomb. further into the 20th centuri physicist went deeper into the mysteri of the atom. us particl acceler thei discov that proton and neutron were actual made of other particl, call quark.

the most accur model so far come from the schrödinger equat. schrödinger realiz that the electron exist in a cloud around the nucleu, call the electron cloud. in the electron cloud, it is imposs to know exactli where electron ar. the schrödinger equat is us to find out where an electron is like to be found. thi area is call the electron's orbit.

the atom is made up of thee main particl; the proton, the neutron and the electron. the isotop of hydrogen hydrogen-1 ha no neutron, and a posit hydrogen ion ha no electron. these ar the onli known except, all other atom have at least on proton, neutron and electron each. 

electron ar by far the smallest of the three, their mass and size is too small to be measur us current technolog. thei have a neg charg. proton and neutron ar similar size proton ar posit charg and neutron have no charg. most atom have a neutral charg; becaus the number of proton and electron ar the same, the charg balanc out to zero. howev in ion thi is not alwai the case and thei can have a posit or a neg charg. proton and neutron ar made out of quark, of two type; up quark and down quark. a proton is made of two up quark and on down quark and a neutron is made of two down quark and on up quark.

 the nucleu is in the middl of an atom. it is made up of proton and neutron. usual in natur two thing with the same charg repel or shoot awai from each other. so for a long time it wa a mysteri to scientist how the posit charg proton in the nucleu stai togeth. thei solv thi by find a particl call a gluon. it's name come from the word glue as gluon act like atom glue, stick the proton togeth us the strong nuclear forc. it is thi forc which also hold the quark togeth that make up the proton and neutron.

the number of neutron in relat to proton defin whether the nucleu is stabl or goe through radioact decai. when there ar too mani neutron or proton, the atom tri to make the number the same by get rid of the excess particl. it doe by emit radiat in the form of alpha, beta or gamma decai. nuclei can chang through other mean too. nuclear fission is when the nucleu split into two smaller nuclei, releas a lot of store energi. thi releas energi is what make nuclear fission us for make bomb and electr, in the form of nuclear power. the other wai nuclei can chang is through nuclear fusion, when two nuclei join togeth, or fuse, to make a heavier nucleu. thi process requir extrem amount of energi in order to overcom the electrostat repuls between the proton, as thei have the same charg. such high energi ar most commonli found in star like our sun, which fuse hydrodgen for fuel.

electron orbit or go around the nucleu. thei ar call the atom's electron cloud. thei ar attract toward the nucleu becaus of the electromagnet forc. electron have a neg charg and the nucleu alwai ha a posit charg, so thei attract each other. around the nucleu some electron ar further out than other. these ar call electron shell. in most atom the first shell ha two electron, and all after that have eight. except ar rare, but thei do happen and ar difficult to predict. the further awai the electron is from the nucleu, the weaker the pull of the nucleu on it. thi is why bigger atom, with more electron, react more easili with other atom. the electromagnet of the nucleu is not enough to hold onto their electron and thei lose them to the strong attract of smaller atom 

some element, and mani isotop, have what is call an unstabl nucleu. thi mean the nucleu is either too big to hold itself togeth or ha too mani proton, electron or neutron. when thi happen the nucleu ha to get rid of the excess mass or particl. it doe thi through radiat. an atom that doe thi can be call radioact. unstabl atom continu to be radioact until thei lose enough mass/parfticl that thei becom stabl. all atom abov atom number 82 ar radioact.

there ar three main type of radioact decai; alpha, beta and gamma.

everi radioact element or isotop ha someth call a half life. thi is how long it take half of ani sampl of atom of that type to decai until thei becom a differ stabl isotop or element. larg atom, or isotop with a big differ between the number of proton and neutron will therefor have a long half life.

<titl>aluminium</titl>
aluminium is a chemic element. the symbol for aluminium is al, and it atom number is 13. aluminium is the most abund metal.

aluminium is a veri good conductor of electr and heat. it is light and strong. it can be hammer into sheet or pull out into wire . it is corros resist.

aluminium ha mani us. much of it is us in overhead power cabl. it is also wide us in window frame and aircraft bodi. it is found at home as saucepan, soft drink can, and cook foil. aluminium is also us to coat car headlamp and compact disc.

aluminium wa onc consid a preciou metal that wa even more valuabl than gold. thi is no longer true becaus, as technolog improv, it becam cheaper and easier to make pure aluminium.

pure aluminium is made from bauxit, a kind of rock that ha aluminium and mani impur. the impur ar remov with chemic and electr, to leav behind pure aluminium. the aluminium is then melt and pour into contain for storag until it is readi for us.

pure aluminium is veri soft, so a harder metal is almost alwai ad. the harder metal is usual copper. copper/aluminium alloi ar us for ship build purpos, becaus the aluminium prevent corros, and the copper prevent barnacl.

aluminium prevent corros by form a small, thin layer of aluminium oxid on it surfac. thi layer protect the metal by prevent oxygen from reach it. corros can not occur without oxygen.

<titl>anglican communion</titl>
the anglican communion is an associ of all anglican church in full communion with the church of england. there is no singl "anglican church" with univers author, becaus each nation or region church ha full autonomi. with over seventi seven million member, the anglican communion is the third largest communion in the world, after the roman cathol church and the eastern orthodox church.

the statu of full communion mean that all rite conduct in on church ar recognis by the other. some of these church ar known as anglican, explicitli recognis the link to england . 

the archbishop of canterburi, religi head of the church of england, ha no formal author outsid that jurisdict, but is recognis as symbol head of the worldwid communion. 

 all thirti-eight provinc of the anglican communion ar independ, each with it own primat and govern structur. these provinc mai take the form of nation church or a collect of nation . thei ar, in alphabet order:

in addit, there ar six extraprovinci church, five of which ar under the metropolit author of the archbishop of canterburi.

<titl>archipelago</titl>
an archipelago is a chain or group of island. the word archipelago mean "chief sea", from greek arkhon and pelago .

 archipelago ar usual found in the open sea; less commonli, a big land mass mai neighbor them, an exampl be scotland which ha more than 700 island surround the mainland. archipelago ar often volcan, form along mid-ocean ridg or hotspot, but there ar mani other process involv in their construct, includ eros, deposit, and land elev.

the four biggest countri that ar mainli archipelago ar japan, the philippin, the unit kingdom and indonesia .

the biggest archipelago in the world by size is in northern canada, the canadian arctic archipelago, which is in the arctic ocean.

<titl>author</titl>
an author is a person who write a book, stori, poem, or other written work. their write can be truth or fiction, short or long. often, author is a word for a person whose job is to write. 

sometim, a person who creat someth but is not a writer is call an author. someon who write music mai be call the author of that piec of music, though we would usual call that person a compos. the french word for author, auteur, is anoth name for the director of a movi. 

in biologi, the first person to write an articl that give a name to and describ a type of live thing is the author of that name. 

<titl>anxieti</titl>
anxieti is an unpleas emot state. it can includ fear. veri often, peopl with anxieti also feel worri. there can also be physic symptom, like have a headach or an upset stomach.

some peopl have a lot of anxieti that control them. thi can be treat by therapi and medicin.

<titl>addict</titl>
addict is when the bodi or mind badli want or need someth in order to work right. when you have addict to someth it is call be addict or be an addict. peopl can be addict to drug, cigarett, alcohol, caffein, and mani other thing. 

when somebodi is addict to someth, thei can becom sick if thei do not get the thing thei ar addict to. but take more of the thing thei ar addict to can also hurt their health. some peopl who ar addict need to go to a doctor or hospit to cure the addict, so thei no longer crave the drug.

peopl can also be addict to other thing which ar not drug. you mai hear peopl talk about be "addict to the internet" or "addict to chocol."

<titl>axiom</titl>
an axiom is a statement of logic, that is not prove within insid the discuss of a problem. 

logic can be us to deduc other theorem from the axiom.

 euclid of alexandria wa a greek mathematician. around the year 300bc, he made a list of axiom:

<titl>alpha (letter)</titl>
alpha , is the letter of the greek alphabet, us to stand for the "a" sound in ancient and modern greek. in the system of greek numer, it ha a valu of 1. letter that came from it ar the roman a and cyril а.

alpha is often us in physic and chemistri as a symbol or in the name of thing, for exampl alpha particl . the symbol is also us a lot in mathemat in algebra, for exampl name angl.

<titl>antigua and barbuda</titl>
antigua and barbuda is an island nation locat in the eastern caribbean sea on the boundari with the atlant ocean. antigua and barbuda ar part of the lesser antil archipelago.

<titl>azincourt</titl>
azincourt is a commun. it is found in the region nord-pa-de-calai in the pa-de-calai depart in the north of franc.

<titl>albert speer</titl>
albert speer wa a german architect. he wa the inspector for constitut. in 1942, he becam the minist for munit and armament. he wa also a member of hitler's cabinet.

<titl>alliacea</titl>
alliacea is a famili of herbac perenni flower plant. thei ar part of order asparagal. 

<titl>asteracea</titl>
the famili asteracea or composita is the largest famili of flower plant, in term of number of speci.

<titl>apiacea</titl>
the apiacea or umbellifera is a famili of usual aromat plant with hollow stem, commonli known as umbellif. it includ cumin, parslei, carrot, coriand/cilantro, dill, carawai, fennel, parsnip, celeri, queen ann's lace and other rel. it is a larg famili with about 300 genera and more than 3,000 speci.

<titl>axon</titl>
the axon is the part of a neuron that branch off the main bodi . the axon carri an electr signal from the soma to the synaps, where it pass the signal to other neuron or to muscl fiber. the axon mai be over a meter long in human, and even longer in bigger anim, like eleph and whale. 

the electr signal of an axon is made by ion that flow in and out of the cell in a chain reaction call an action potenti. these signal alwai flow from the soma to the synaps in normal neuron. the speed at which the signal travel depend on how thick the axon is, and how much insul it ha. insul is provid by special cell call myelin that wrap around the axon.

<titl>ada lovelac</titl>
augusta ada king, countess of lovelac , born augusta ada byron, wa an english writer who becam the world's first comput programm. she wrote the program for charl babbag's mechan comput, the analyt engin. she wrote the first algorithm that wa meant to be process by a machin.

she wa the onli legitim child of the poet lord byron and ann isabella milbank. she had no relationship with her father, who di when she wa nine. as a young adult she took an interest in mathemat, and in particular babbag's work on the analyt engin. between 1842 and 1843 she translat an articl by italian mathematician luigi menabrea on the engin. she ad her own note on the engin. these note contain what is consid the first comput program, that is, an algorithm encod for process by a machin. though babbag's engin wa never built, lovelac's note ar import in the earli histori of comput. she realiz that comput would be abl to do more than just calcul or number-crunch. other, includ babbag himself, work onli on the possibl of calcul. 

<titl>alp</titl>
the alp ar on of the great mountain rang system of europ. it reach from austria and slovenia in the east; through itali, switzerland, liechtenstein and germani; to franc in the west.

the highest mountain in the alp is mont blanc, at 4808 m, on the italian–french border.

the english name alp wa taken from french from latin alp, which mai be ultim alik with latin albu . the german alb, alp or alp , and the french alpag or alp in the singular mean "alpin pastur", and onli in the plural mai also refer to the mountain rang as a whole.

the alp stretch from austria and slovenia in the east, through itali, switzerland, liechtenstein and germani to franc in the west.

the highest mountain in the alp is the mont blanc , on the french-italian border.

thei ar divid into subdivis. the mountain ar divid into the western alp and the eastern alp. the divis is along the line between lake constanc and lake como, follow the rhine. the western alp ar higher, but their central chain is shorter and curv; thei ar locat in itali, franc and switzerland. the eastern alp belong to austria, germani, itali, liechtenstein, slovenia and switzerland. the highest peak of the western alp ar mont blanc, 4,808 metr , mont blanc de courmayeur 4,748 metr , the dufourspitz 4,634 metr and the other summit of the mont rosa group, and the dom, 4,545 metr . the highest peak in the eastern alp is piz bernina, 4,049 metr . perhap the most famou locat for tourist to the alp ar the swiss alp.

the main chain of the alp follow the watersh from the mediterranean sea to the wienerwald. it then pass over mani of the highest and most famou peak in the alp. from the coll di cadibona to col de tend it run to the west befor turn to the northwest and then, to the north, near the coll della maddalena. upon reach the swiss border, the line of the main chain goe about northeast, a head it follow until it end near vienna.

 the alp do not make an impass block; thei have been travel by for war and commerc, and later by pilgrim, student and tourist. cross place by road, train or foot ar call pass. these ar depress in the mountain into which a vallei lead from the plain and hilli pre-mountain place.

 the union international de associ d'alpinism ha defin a list of 82 "offici" alpin 4,000-meter peak. the list ha mani sub-peak with littl promin, but good for mountain. here ar the twelv four-thousand with at least 1 km promin.

karl blodig wa the first person to climb all the main four-thousand meter peak, in about 1900.

the alp make a part of a tertiari orogen belt of mountain chain, call the alpid belt. it reach through southern europ and asia from the atlant ocean all the wai to the himalaya. thi belt of mountain chain wa made dure the alpin orogeni. a gap in these mountain chain in central europ separ the alp from the carpathian off to the east. orogeni took place a lot and tecton subsid is to blame for the gap in between.

the alp came up as a result of the collis of the african and european tecton plate, in which the western part of the tethi ocean, which wa in between these contin, disappear. big stress came out on sediment of the tethi ocean basin and it mesozo and earli cenozo strata were push against the stabl eurasian landmass by the northward-move african landmass. most of thi happen dure the oligocen and miocen time. the pressur made great ly down fold, or napp, that came out of what had becom the tethi sea and push northward. thi often broke and slid on over the other to make big thrust fault. crystallin basement rock, which ar expos in the higher central region, ar the rock make mont blanc, the matterhorn, and high peak in the pennin alp and hohe tauern.

the format of the mediterranean sea is a more new develop, and doe not show the northern shore of the african landmass.

the alp ar popular both in summer and in winter. the alp as a place for sightse and sport. winter sport can be learn in most region from decemb to april. in summer, the alp ar popular with hiker, mountain biker, paraglid, and mountain. there ar also alpin lake which attract swimmer, sailor and surfer. the lower place and bigger town of the alp ar well serv by motorwai and main road, but higher pass and by-road can be bad even in the summer. mani pass ar close in winter. mani airport around the alp , as well as long-distanc rail link from all border countri, afford larg number of travel easi access from abroad. the alp normal ha more than 100 million visitor a year.

 a natur veget limit with altitud is given becaus of the temporari tree—oak, beech, ash and sycamor mapl. these do not reach to the same height. thei ar also hard to find grow togeth. but their upper limit complement similar enough to the chang from a temper to a colder climat that is further shown true by a chang in the wild flower plant life. thi limit normal li about 1200 m abov the sea on the north side of the alp. on the southern slope, it often reach to 1500 m, sometim even to 1700 m.

the alp ar not alwai mark by the presenc of the typic tree. human have almost kill them in mani place. plu, except for the beech forest of the austrian alp, forest of temporari tree ar hardli found. in mani place where such wood onc were there, thei have been taken over by the scot pine and norwai spruce. these tree ar less sensit to the attack of goat who ar the worst enemi of such tree.

abov the forestri, there is often a band of short pine tree , which is in turn take place of dwarf shrub. these shrub mostli be rhododendron ferrugineum or rhododendron hirsutum . abov thi is the alpin meadow. abov the alpin meadow is where plant life becom less and less common. at these higher height, the plant ar like to make set apart group. in the alp, mani speci of flower plant have been record abov 4000 m. these ar like ranunculu glaciali, androsac alpina and saxifraga biflora.

 speci common to the alp. 

<titl>albert camu</titl>
albert camu wa a french philosoph and writer. camu wrote novel and plai. camu wa born in algeria, a countri in the north part of africa. he had french parent. mani peopl think that camu is an existentialist philosoph. existenti is a philosophi that is veri differ from other wai of think. camu won the nobel prize in literatur in 1957.

 albert camu wa born in algeria to a poor work class famili. hi mother wa spanish and hi father wa french. hi father di in battl and he wa left to live with hi grandmoth. when he wa 17 he wa diagnos with tuberculosi, which wa veri impact on him at that point in hi life. it limit him greatli in hi athlet as well as in hi career opportun, due to the fact that tuberculosi is quit contagi. for thi reason he claim that hi diseas “set him free” becaus he would have done someth els with hi life had he seen the opportun. he went to the univers of algier, where he graduat with a degre in 1935. in the 1930s, camu becam interest in polit. in 1935, camu join the french communist parti, a polit group. in the late 1930s, camu wa a writer for the socialist newspap, the alger-republicain.

 in 1941, camu wrote hi first novel, which wa call the stranger. dure world war ii, camu join the french resist to fight against the nazi armi. after world war ii, camu becam friend with anoth writer call jean-paul sartr. camu and sartr often talk about philosophi and polit in small restaur call cafés.

 camu wrote book about philosophi which said that life wa "absurd" . in the 1950s camu tri to improv human right. in 1960, camu di in a car crash. he had two children, catherin and jean.

<titl>agatha christi</titl>
agatha christi wa an english writer of crime stori. 

she wa born in torquai and wa marri two time, she had on child call rosalind hick. 

agatha christi work in a hospit and in a pharmaci in world war i. 

her book ar veri famou all over the world, and she sold a lot of book. her stori ar about murder and find out who did them. the most well-known charact in her book ar miss marpl and hercul poirot. miss marpl is an old ladi, and she talk to everyon. she us logic to find out who is guilti of the murder. hercul poirot is a privat detect from belgium who live in london. he like to find out who did the murder by think about all the evid.

she also wrote romanc novel and theatr plai. thei were veri success too.

in 1971, she wa honour by the queen with the titl dame command of the order of the british empir.

<titl>absolut valu</titl>
in mathemat, the absolut valu of a numberi the number without the sign. the absolut valu of 2 is 2, the absolut valu of -2 is also 2. 

<titl>analog signal</titl>
an analog or analogu signal is ani signal. 

the differ from a digit signal is that also veri small fluctuat in the signal ar meaning. when on speak of analog on often mean an electr context, howev mechan, pneumat, hydraul, and other system mai also convei analog signal.

an analog signal us some properti of the medium to convei the signal's inform. ani inform mai be convei by an analog signal, often such a signal is a measur chang in physic phenomena, such as sound, light, temperatur, posit, or pressur.

for exampl, in sound record, fluctuat in air pressur strike the diaphragm of a microphon which caus correspond fluctuat in a voltag or the current in an electr circuit. the voltag or the current is said to be an "analog" of the sound.

see digit for a discuss of digit vs. analog.

<titl>april</titl>
april is the fourth month of the year with 30 dai. the name april come from that latin word aperir which mean "to open". thi probabl refer to grow plant in spring. april begin on the same dai of week as juli in all year and also januari in leap year.

april's flower is the sweet pea and it birthston is the diamond. the mean of the diamond is innoc.

 poet us april to mean the end of winter. for exampl: april shower bring mai flower.

<titl>august</titl>
august is the eighth month of the year. it ha 31 dai. 

thi month wa first call sextili in latin, becaus it wa the sixth month in the old roman calendar. the roman calendar began in march about 735 bc with romulu. it wa the eighth month when januari or februari were ad to the start of the year by king numa pompiliu about 700 bc. or, when those two month were move from the end to the begin of the year by the decemvir about 450 bc .

august is name for augustu caesar. the month ha 31 dai becaus the roman senat want as mani dai as juliu caesar's month juli. augustu is in summer, after juli and befor septemb.

an extra month wa move from februari in order to make the month of august seem more import. thi wa undon when the leap year adjust wa made. 

august's flower is the gladioli with the birthston be peridot. 

<titl>aaron</titl>
aaron is a biblic figur. he wa the older brother of mose. he help mose lead the hebrew out of egypt. in the bibl, he appear veri much in exodu.

 aaron spoke for mose, when he went to tell pharaoh the king of egypt everyth god want mose to sai. the lord said to mose, "see, i have amd you like god to pharaoh, and your brother aaron will be your prophet. you ar to sai everyth i command you, and your brother aaron is to tell pharaoh to let the israelit go out of hi countri...".

 aaron's staff wa us by the lord a few time when try to persuad the pharaoh to let the israelit go. the lord order mose and aaron, "when pharaoh sai to you, 'perform a miracl,' then sai to aaron, take your staff and throw it down befor pharaoh', and it will becom a snake." so mose and aaron went to pharaoh and aaron did so. aaron's staff, accord to the bibl, realli becam a snake and at up all the other snake that the pharaoh's magician had made. also, aaron's staff wa us to make the nile river all turn into blood. he "stretch it out", and the fish in the nile di, and the river smell; and the egyptian could not drink the water, as it wa record in the bibl.

<titl>alcohol</titl>
in chemistri, alcohol is a gener term which refer to mani organ compound us in industri and scienc as reagent, solvent, and fuel. alcohol ar carbohydr which ar made of an alkyl group with on or more hydroxyl group bound to it carbon atom. alcohol is colorless, and also transpar. 

 there ar two wai of name alcohol: common name, and iupac name. 

 the hydroxyl group make alcohol polar. alcohol ar veri weakli acid.

in common usag, "alcohol" often mean ethanol or "grain alcohol". .

<titl>allen ginsberg</titl>
irwin allen ginsberg wa an american poet and author, who wa part of the beat gener movement of poet in the 1950s. he wa a friend of writer jack kerouac and william s. burrough, and later made friend with musician bob dylan, donovan, john lennon and yoko ono, and mani other celebr.

ginsberg's most famou work wa call howl, and wa a long poem about the social condit of the unit state in the 1950s. it began with the word "i saw the best mind of my gener destroi by mad." it went on to describ the frustrat felt by mani american, young peopl and in particular. there were problem in the countri, such as prejudic and intoler, that need to be spoken about. ginsberg the poem, and also perform it at public poetri read.

a few peopl didn't like howl, or the graphic languag ginsberg us. thei tri to have howl , and ginsberg prosecut . ginsberg went to trial, and the judg decid howl wa an import work, and told the truth about america at the time. the judg reject the ban and clear ginsberg, who could then continu to publish and perform the poem.

ginsberg becam involv in social caus through hi work, and through the famou peopl he met. he grew up in the jewish faith, but later becam a buddhist. he wa a homosexu, and hi longtim partner wa anoth poet, peter orlovski. he also had a long relationship with neal cassadi, who appear as "n.c., secret hero of these poem" in howl. ginsberg di in 1997 of liver cancer.

<titl>anatoli karpov</titl>
anatoli karpov is a soviet and russian chess grandmast and former world champion. he wa offici world champion from 1975 to 1985, plai three more match for the titl from 1986 to 1990, then wa fide world champion from 1993 to 1999. 

hi tournament success includ over 160 first-place finish. he had a peak elo rate of 2780, and hi 90 month at world number on ar second onli to the record of garri kasparov. 

sinc 2005, he ha been a member of the public chamber of russia. he ha recent involv himself in sever humanitarian caus, such as advoc the us of iodis salt.

<titl>auto race</titl>
auto race is a sport involv race automobil. auto race began in franc in 1895 and is now on of the world's most popular spectat sport.

<titl>anarcho-capit</titl>
anarcho-capit is a libertarian and anarchist philosophi that is against the idea of polit govern, and for econom govern through free market capit with suppli and demand.

anarcho-capitalist think that peopl can protect themselv without ani govern. instead of put a stop to intrus with more law, peopl could protect their own thing, or agre to pai other peopl such as arbitr, insur, and privat defend to protect them through the marketplac. anarcho-capitalist sai that the govern is a thief, becaus it take tax awai from peopl against their will, and keep them from make agreement between themselv.

<titl>aristophan</titl>
aristophan wa a greek writer who wrote 40 plai. howev, onli 11 of hi plai surviv in their entireti. he is famou for write comedi , and even todai hi plai make peopl laugh.

mani of the joke in hi plai relat to sex. for exampl, lysistrata is about a group of women who protest a war by not have sexual intercours with their husband until the war is end.

anoth well known plai by aristophan is the frog.

<titl>albert schweitzer</titl>
albert schweitzer, m.d., o.m., wa a theologian, musician, philosoph and physician. he wa born in alsac, at the time a part of the german empir.

he wrote book about music and religion. he start a famou hospit in lambaren, africa. he receiv the 1952 nobel peac prize.

 albert schweitzer wa born in the alsac, germani on januari 14, 1875. he live in the villag of gunsbach, where hi father wa a local pastor. hi father taught him how to plai music. in 1893, schweitzer pass hi baccalaureat.

after thi, schweitzer went to pari to learn philosophi and music, befor return to hi birthplac to studi theologi. he spent nine year studi medicin and surgeri. he would dedic hi life to help peopl and cure diseas.

 schweitzer wa a famou organist and wa extrem interest in the music of johann sebastian bach. he develop a simpl style of perform, which he thought to be closer to what bach had meant. in 1908, he complet the final version of hi book "johann sebastian bach". in the book, he argu for the new style, which ha had great influenc on the wai bach’s music is now treat. 

when schweitzer wa in lambaren, hi main recreat wa to plai bach’s music. he also gave music perform to rais monei for medic suppli in gabon.

record of schweitzer plai the music of bach ar avail on cd. between 1934 and 1935, he had a trial record for hmv on the organ of the old queen's hall in london. in mid-decemb 1935, he began to record for columbia record on the organ of all-hallow-by-the-tower, bark, london.

 schweitzer becam well-known for hi book on jesu and christian. he wa not so much interest in the histor studi of jesu, as in the christian idea of the end of the world, which can be found in the bibl and the teach of jesu. schweitzer also serv as a minist for saint nichola church in strassburg.

in the philosophi of albert schweitzer, the most import idea is the respect for life. in hi book "the philosophi of civil", he wrote that "true philosophi" begin with the idea that: "i am a life that want to live, in the midst of life that want to live." albert schweitzer’s ethic principl meant that he tri to have a person and spiritu relationship with the univers. it also meant that he wa vegetarian.

 albert schweitzer spent most of hi life in lambaren, africa. in 1904, he wa inspir to help sick peopl in the world, so he studi medicin. after hi medic studi in 1913, he went to lambaren with hi wife to establish a hospit that would serv thousand of african.

dure world war i, the french made schweitzer and hi wife, both german, leav africa. in 1924, he return to lambaren and manag to rebuild the destroi hospit, where he serv as a physician .

 from 1939-1948, he stai in lambaren sinc he could not go to europ dure the war. three year later he resum hi medic practic. but he wa no longer just a medic doctor and whenev possibl he went to europ to lectur at univers. slowli hi idea becom known, not onli in europ but worldwid. 

in 1952 dr albert schweitzer wa award the nobel peac prize for peac. he gave a famou speech "the problem of peac". he di on septemb 4, 1965 at hi hospit in lambaren.

<titl>aarhu</titl>
aarhu is the second biggest citi in denmark.

it ha about 300,000 inhabit. the metropolitan area ha almost 700.000 inhabit

the settlement of aarhu start about 770. oldest document of aarhu is from 951. it start as a trade place of the vike. in the 16th centuri, the citi grew. it second era of expans wa dure the industri revolut.

<titl>amateur</titl>
the word amateur is normal us to mean: somebodi who doe someth without be paid for it, or without have had train or educ for it.

the opposit of an amateur is a profession. a profession is someon who ha had formal train for someth. he will expect to be paid a profession fee for the job.

the word “amateur” come from a french word mean: "lover of". an amateur is someon who doe someth becaus thei enjoi do it. thei ar not do it in order to be paid. it is not how thei earn monei to live.

peopl often forget the real mean of the word “amateur”. it is often us to mean: someon who is not good at someth. someon’s perform might be describ as “amateurish”, i.e. not veri good. on the other hand, thei might be describ as have done a veri “profession” job, i.e. a veri good job.

although on might expect a profession to be better than an amateur, thi is not alwai the case. someon might be a veri good amateur pianist, possibl better than some profession.

in mani sport , amateur and profession us not to be allow to compet against on anoth. thi wa not alwai becaus amateur were thought to be not as good as profession. in some countri, such as great britain in victorian time, thi us to be becaus of social class distinct. amateur cricket were rich gentlemen from the upper class who did not want to associ with peopl from lower class. thi attitud took a long time to chang dure the 20th centuri. until the 1970s most olymp event were for amateur. athlet were disqualifi if thei receiv monei for the event.

amateur box requir mandatori head & nose gear, unlik in profession kick box & box, the head is unprotect. 

in some job it would be imposs for amateur to be allow to work. on cannot have amateur doctor or lawyer. in some area, howev, amateur can be veri us, e.g. in comput program or astronomi or birdwatch. 

<titl>alexi carrel</titl>
alexi carrel wa a french surgeon. he won the 1912 nobel prize in physiolog or medicin, for hi work on join blood vessel and the transplant of blood vessel and organ. 

<titl>anatol franc</titl>
anatol franc, born françoi-anatol thibault , wa a french poet, critic, and novelist. he won the nobel prize in literatur in 1921. he wa a member of the académie français. 

anatol franc wa a son of a booksel. he studi at the collége stanisla. he got marri in 1877 but he get divorc in 1892. he wa librarian for the french senat in 1876 - 1890.

anatol franc start hi career as a parnassian poet. later he becam an impressionist and he wa an atheist. from 1867 he wa a journalist. in 1881 he becam famou with the novel le crime de sylvestr bonnard, membr de l'institut. it's about an old scholar sylvest bonnard, bonnard want to make good, but he commit a crime. thi novel won franc a prize from the french academi. in 1893 he captur the atmospher of the fin de siecl in le opinion de jerom coignard.

franc took a part in the dreyfu affair. he sign emil zola's manifesto support dreyfu. alfr dreyfu wa a french artilleri offic and he wa charg with high treason. in 1901 franc wrote monsieur bergeret about thi affair. he stood out against coloni.

in 1921 he wa award the nobel prize. he di in 1924 and he is buri near pari in the neuilli-sur-sein commun cemeteri.

<titl>almond</titl>
the almond is a small tree in the famili rosacea. the tree make nut or fruit that ar also call almond. within the genu prunu, it is classifi in the subgenu amygdalu. amygdalu is told apart from other subgenera by the wavi seed shell. botan, the almond seed or fruit is not a true nut, but a drupe.

<titl>antisemit</titl>
anti-semit is the hate of or prejudic against jew. the word semit talk about a famili of languag and it speaker, which includ those of jewish blood and those who speak arab. but, in thi usag, it mostli us for jew onli. on of the biggest act of anti-semit wa dure world war ii. adolf hitler and the nazi parti kill almost 6 million jew in an event known as the holocaust.

<titl>arm forc of armenia</titl>
the arm forc of the republ of armenia is the armi, air forc, air defens, and border guard. some part were form out of the former soviet forc in the armenian ssr. 

the command-in-chief of the militari is the presid of armenia, current robert kocharyan. the ministri of defens is in charg of polit leadership. it is current head by mikael harutyunyan. militari command is in the hand of the gener staff, head by the chief of staff, who is lieuten-gener seyran ohanyan. armenia establish a ministri of defens on 28 januari 1992. the border guard purpos is to patrol armenia's border with georgia and azerbaijan, while russian troop continu to watch it border with iran and turkei.

<titl>avicenna</titl>
 ; c. 980 in bukhara, khorasan – 1037 in hamedan, also known as ibn seena and commonli known in english by hi latin name avicenna , wa a persian muslim polymath and the most import physician and islam philosoph of hi time. he wa also an astronom, chemist, hafiz, logician, mathematician, poet, psychologist, scientist, sheikh, soldier, statesman and theologian.

ibn sīnā wrote almost 450 treatis on a wide rang of subject, of which around 240 have surviv. in particular, 150 of hi surviv treatis concentr on philosophi and 40 of them concentr on medicin. 

<titl>the ash</titl>
the ash is how to describ a "seri" or group of cricket match plai by england and australia.

the name come from a small pot of ash, which wa made and present to a former england captain in 1882, follow a joke print in the sport time, an english newspap, in 1882: australia beat england in a seri and someon place an advert in the page of the paper, describ how english cricket had di and it bodi had been cremat.

<titl>analysi</titl>
an analysi is what a person ha when he or she ha analys someth. 

<titl>amplitud modul</titl>
amplitud modul, usual shorten to am, is a simpl wai to send a radio signal. the signal can travel long distanc, and appear in farawai place, becaus of the earth's ionospher. 

amplitud is the height of a wave. a carrier wave is modul by ad audio. the combin signal is transmit over a frequenc. am signal can be receiv by a crystal-power radio set, that need no batteri or electr power sourc. mani earli radio were homemad, and us earphon.

am signal ar mostli sent out on medium wave and shortwav frequenc. thei do not carri high fidel sound, but the sound is good enough to hear most thing. analog signal can fade in and out, or have from power line and power station. sunspot activ can also weaken signal.

in the earli year of commerci radio, begin in the 1920s, medium wave am wa the onli kind of radio wide us. radio program were much like todai's televis program, with new, sport, drama, music, comedi, and other entertain.

later frequenc modul radio wa develop. it had better fidel, but the signal could not travel as far, so am wa still import. after televis becam common in the 1950s, am becam a major for popular music. as fm becam common in the 1970s, am station featur more new, and talk show.

shortwav radio signal can travel around the world, and ar us by countri to send program to distant place. these program featur new about the countri, exampl of their nativ cultur and histori, and sometim foreign languag lesson.

<titl>ardipithecu</titl>
ardipithecu is a veri earli human of the genu, which live about 4.4 million year ago dure the earli pliocen.

becaus thi genu share sever trait with the african great ap genera , it is consid by some to be on the chimpanze rather than human branch, but most consid it a proto-human becaus of a like in teeth with australopithecu.

<titl>adelaid</titl>
adelaid is a citi in australia. it is the capit citi of the state of south australia, and it ha an approxim popul of 1.1 million peopl.

it is the fifth biggest citi in australia, behind sydnei, melbourn, brisban and perth. adelaid wa found in 1836 by colonel william light, who name it after queen adelaid.

adelaid is near the southern ocean and is north of the fleurieu peninsula. it ha a river go through it call the river torren. mani festiv ar held there, and grape for wine product ar grown in the barossa vallei about 50 kilometr northeast of adelaid.

<titl>automorph</titl>
in abstract algebra an automorph is an isomorph from a group , or set of element onto itself.

<titl>accordion</titl>
an accordion is a music instrument that ha kei similar to a piano, but is small enough for a person to hold, and make sound us air push and pull through reed us a bellow. the accordion can also have button instead of kei. 

<titl>artifici intellig</titl>
artifici intellig is the studi of mental process through the us of comput model. the name wa coin as the topic of a 1956 dartmouth confer by john mccarthi. it is about make comput' decis make and train of thought appear more human. mccarthi defin it as "the scienc and engin of make intellig machin."

the idea behind ai is not to make a comput smart by know more inform. it is to build a machin that can act as if it were smart. veri often, ai is close connect to mathemat logic, the abil to prove thing, and simplifi mathemat formula. sometim, ai is meant to be a simul of human intellig, often as a part of research in the area of psycholog.

on of the earliest descript of ai wa the ture machin. a ture machin is ani machin that take a set of input data, perform some fix calcul that must be chosen befor the machin run, and produc some predict output. thi machin is the basi of modern comput.

think machin and artifici be appear in greek myth, such as talo of crete, the golden robot of hephaestu and pygmalion's galatea. human like believ to have intellig were built in everi major civil: anim statu were worship in egypt and greec 

<titl>anaximand</titl>
anaximand wa a pre-socrat greek philosoph who live in miletu, a citi of ionia. he belong to the milesian school and learn the teach of hi master thale. he succeed him and becam the second master of that school where he count anaximen and pythagora amongst hi pupil.

littl of hi life and work is known todai. accord to avail histor document, he is the first philosoph known to have written down hi studi, although onli on fragment of hi work remain. fragmentari testimoni found in document after hi death provid a portrait of the man.

<titl>architect</titl>
an architect is a person who design build and prepar plan to give to a builder. what he or she design is call architectur. architect make draw with pen, pencil, and comput, and thi is also call draft. sometim thei first make small toi-size build call model to show what the build will look like when it is done. some of these model surviv for hundr of year, eg at st paul's cathedr, london. 

architect decid the size and shape of a build, and what it will be made from. thei ar the kei design of ani and all build. architect need to be good at math and draw and must have imagin. thei must go to univers and studi for a long time. there ar special test that must be taken befor becom an architect. for exampl, the test make sure that architect know how to make the build's structur safe, so that it will not collaps. thei should also know how to make a build attract, so that peopl will enjoi us it. to be an architect you must go to colleg or a univers for 5 year.

although there ha been architectur for thousand of year, there haven't alwai been architect. the great european cathedr built in the middl ag were design by a master builder, who scratch hi design on flat bed of plaster. paper did not exist in europ at thi time and vellum or parchment were veri expens and could not be made in larg size. some cathedr took hundr of year to build, so the master builder would die or retir and be replac and often plan chang. some cathedr were never finish, like notr dame in pari or la sagrada familia in barcelona.

an architect ha a veri import job, becaus hi or her work will be seen and us by mani peopl, probabl for a veri long time. if the design, materi and construct ar good, the build should last for hundr or even thousand of year. thi is rare the case. usual build cost is what limit the life of a build, but fire, war, need or fashion can also affect thing. as town and citi grow, it often becom necessari to make road wider, or perhap to build a new train station. architect ar emploi again and so the citi chang. even veri import build mai get knock down to make wai for chang.

<titl>abbrevi</titl>
an abbrevi is a shorter wai to write a word or phrase. peopl us abbrevi for word that thei write a lot. the english languag occasion us the apostroph mark ' to show that a word is written in a shorter wai, but some abbrevi do not us thi mark. more often, thei us period, especi the on that come from the latin languag. common latin abbrevi includ i.e. that is, e.g. for exampl, and et al. and other.

some new abbrevi have been creat by scientist, by worker in compani and govern, and by peopl us the internet. 

peopl often think word ar abbrevi when in fact thei ar acronym.

here ar exampl of common acronym: the word "radar" is an acronym for "radio detect and rang". the name of the larg comput compani ibm come from the word "intern busi machin". the name of the part of the unit state govern that send rocket into outer space is nasa, from the word "nation aeronaut and space administr". when peopl us the internet think that someth is veri funni, thei sometim write "lol" to mean "laugh out loud". peopl sometim write "asap" for "as soon as possibl".

<titl>aphrodit</titl>
aphrodit is the goddess of love and beauti in greek mytholog, and on of the twelv olympian. mani painter chose to paint her as a nake woman. 

 aphrodit wa born from sea-foam near papho, cypru. she appear from the sea after krono cut off urano's genit and threw them into the sea. she is older than time.

 aphrodit wa veri beauti, which made zeu, the god of the god, afraid that she would be the caus of fight between the other god. he therefor marri aphrodit to hephaestu. hephastu wa happi to be marri to aphrodit and made her lot of jewelri. but aphrodit did not like him, becaus he wa veri ugli, and went look for other men. she spent most of her time with ar, but wa also link with adoni and anchis.

<titl>aleist crowlei</titl>
aleist crowlei wa a british mystic, occultist, writer, poet, mountain climber and nicknam "the wickedest man in the world.".

he wa an influenti member in some occult organ, such as the golden dawn, the a∴a∴, and ordo templi orienti , and is better known todai for hi occult book and paper.

crowlei also start a mystic philosophi known as thelema, the abbei of thelema, and reviv the term magick.

 edward alexand crowlei wa born at 36 clarendon squar in royal leamington spa, warwickshir, england, between 11:00pm and 11:59p.m. on octob 12, 1875.

in 1895, he went to triniti colleg, cambridg after go to malvern colleg and tonbridg school. in hi three year at cambridg, hi father pass awai and left him a larg sum of monei.

in decemb 1896, crowlei took interest in occult and by the next year, he began read book on alchemi and mystic. a year later, he publish hi first book of poetri , and left cambridg, onli to meet julian l. baker who introduc him to samuel mather and the hermet order of the golden dawn.

 samuel mather, act leader of the golden dawn organ, act as hi earli mentor in western magic. crowlei lost faith in hi mentor's abil in 1900 but did not offici break with mather until 1904.

 crowlei di of a respiratori infect in a hast board hous on 1 decemb 1947 at the ag of 72. he had been addict to heroin after be prescrib morphin for hi asthma and bronchiti mani year earlier.

read at the cremat servic in brighton includ hymn to pan, and newspap refer to the servic as a black mass.

<titl>afterlif</titl>
the afterlif is what some peopl believ happen after death. differ religion teach differ thing about the afterlif. 

some religion believ in reincarn . these religion includ buddhism and hinduism. other believ you go to anoth place after you die, such as heaven or hell. christian and jainism ar two religion that believ in thi. other believ that some peopl chang into spirit call ghost.

there ar also those who do not believ that there is an afterlif, and that you simpli ceas to exist onc you die.

<titl>astrometri</titl>
astrometri is a part of astronomi that ha to do with measur the motion of object in space such as star. two main wai to measur these object ar proper motion and parallax.

proper motion is an object’s chang in posit over time when seen from the earth. just like anyth els that move, a star's proper motion is measur by look toward the same place at differ time and see how far the star ha move. the differ with star is that, from earth, thei seem to move veri slowli so we have to measur in arcsecond per year. when a star ha a larg proper motion, it usual mean that it is nearbi. barnard’s star, the star with the largest proper motion, onli move 1 degre across the sky in 348 year.

parallax is the appar differ in posit of an object when seen from two or more differ place. when an object is seen from a new place, there is a new line of sight go from the viewer to the object show a differ background in the distanc. parallax is measur us the angl between two line of sight.

parallax can also be us to measur distanc to the nearest few thousand star. these distanc ar measur in parsec which ar equal to about 3.26 light year.

<titl>athena</titl>
athena is the greek goddess of wisdom, strategi, war and travel. she is on of the twelv olympian. athena ha a pet owl, and wear a breastplat, call aegi, which wa a present given to her by zeu. she is often shown with her helmet on and with her shield, which ha medusa's head on it. thi wa a present to her from perseu. 

athena is the protector of athen, greec, a citi name after her. the parthenon, which is on the acropoli in athen, is her most famou templ. she also help mani hero, includ heracl, jason, and odysseu, and is alwai seen with nike, the goddess of victori. 

 there ar mani stori about athena's birth. in hesiod's theogoni, zeu had sexual intercours with meti, but wa then scare of her have a child becaus a propheci had said that a son born to meti would overthrow zeu as he had done to hi father. to try and stop meti have a child, zeu swallow her whole . howev, zeu wa too late. meti wa alreadi pregnant when meti had her babi insid of zeu, he got a major headach. he cut hi head open and out came athena complet dress in armor. 

while she wa insid zeu, meti made a helmet and a robe for her babi. the hammer nois caus zeu to have a headach. to try and help zeu with the pain, prometheu, hephaestu, herm or palaemon cut hi head open with a minoan ax. athena then came out of zeu's head. she wa fulli grown and had her armor on.

<titl>alloi</titl>
an alloi is a uniform mixtur. it is made up of two or more chemic element, of which at least on is a metal. an alloi ha properti differ from the metal it is made of.

most alloi ar made by melt the metal, mix them while thei ar liquid to form a solut, then leav them to cool and turn solid again.

alnico is a mix of aluminium and nickel and cobalt, and it is us to make perman magnet. 

<titl>angl</titl>
an angl is the space between two line that meet each other. when two line meet at a point, an angl is form. the two line ar call the arm of the angl. the point thei meet is call the vertex.

to measur the size of an angl, we us degre. degre is a standard unit. degre is denot by the symbol '°'. a degre can be divid into 60 minut , and a minut can be also be divid into 60 second . in mathemat, angl ar usual measur in radian.

an acut angl is an angl less than 90°. a right angl is an angl equal to 90°. an obtus angl is an angl greater than 90°. a straight angl is an angl equal to 180°. a reflex angl is an angl greater than 180° but less than 360°.

supplementari angl ar two angl with the sum equal to 180°.

two angl that sum to on right angl ar call complementari angl. 

two angl that sum to on full circl ar call explementari angl or conjug angl. 

peopl usual us a protractor to measur and draw angl. sometim, peopl us an angl ruler to measur angl.

<titl>acoust</titl>
acoust is the studi of sound.

<titl>american sign languag</titl>
american sign languag is the most popular sign languag for the deaf in the unit state, in the english-speak part of canada, and in part of mexico. although the unit kingdom and the unit state share english as a spoken and written languag, british sign languag is differ than american sign languag.

asl is also us in the philippin, singapor, dominican republ, haiti, puerto rico, côte d'ivoir, burkina faso, ghana, togo, benin, nigeria, chad, gabon, democrat republ of the congo, central african republ, mauritania, kenya, madagascar, and zimbabw. like other sign languag, it grammar is differ from ani spoken languag. no on know how mani peopl us sign languag, but some peopl think that between 500,000 and 2 million peopl in the u.s.a. alon us sign languag. it is the third most us languag in the unit state, behind english and spanish.

asl includ fingerspel. fingerspel is a wai to show ani letter of the english alphabet us on hand. fingerspel is also us to express number. name of peopl and name of place can be fingerspel.

<titl>applet</titl>
an applet is a type of program for comput. it is softwar. veri often, applet ar written in java. peopl run them in their web browser. thei ar us to displai a nice scroll menu on a websit, for exampl, the applet is also us to show some applic.

<titl>atom orbit</titl>
atom orbit ar the place surround the nucleu of an atom where the electron ar most like to be at ani given time. it us to be believ that electron behav similarli to the solar system, where the sun is the nucleu and the planet ar like the electron. howev, electron do not go in circl, thei move errat. the number of atom orbit in an element is defin by the period the element is in. electron move between orbit depend on how fast thei ar move and how mani other electron there ar.

<titl>amino acid</titl>
in biologi and biochemistri, amino acid ar seen as the build block of protein. there ar 20 standard amino acid that almost all protein ar made out of. some amino acid ar glycin, alanin, and tryptophan. in chemistri, an amino acid can refer to ani molecul that contain both amin and carboxyl function group. in biochemistri, thi term refer to alpha-amino acid with the gener formula h2nchrcooh.

<titl>alan ture</titl>
alan mathison ture wa an english mathematician and comput scientist.

he wa on of the first peopl to work with modern digit comput. he wa the first person to think of us a comput for differ thing. he told peopl that comput could run differ program. ture introduc the idea of a ture machin in 1936. the machin wa imaginari, and ran a set of command. 

ture also thought of the ture test. the ture test is a test to see if a person can tell the differ between anoth person and a comput.

dure the second world war, ture wa a main particip in the effort to break german cipher. on the basi of cryptanalysi he help to break both the enigma machin and the lorenz sz 40/42 , and wa, for a time, head of hut 8, the section respons for read german naval signal.

alan ture wa a gai man. in 1952, ture admit have sex with a man. at that time in england, homosexu wa a crime. he wa tri and convict of thi crime in a british court. and wa forc to make a choic. he had to choos between go to jail or "chemic castrat" . he chose the hormon. but thi made him impot and made him grow breast. after suffer these effect for two year, he commit suicid with an appl poison with cyanid in 1954. 

the treatment forc on him is now believ to be veri wrong, go against medic ethic and intern law of human right, and malpractic by most doctor.

<titl>area</titl>
area is the amount of space a two dimension surfac take up. it is us becaus it is how much of a materi is need to make a hollow contain; for exampl, how much wood is need to make a wardrob.

you can us differ formula to find the area of differ shape.

the area of a flat object is relat to the surfac area and volum of a three-dimension object.

the area under a curv can be found us integr, from calculu.

some unit us to measur area ar squar mile and squar kilometr.

<titl>astronom unit</titl>
the astronom unit is a unit of length about the same as the distanc from the center of the earth to the center of the sun. the current accept valu of the au is 149,597,870,691 kilomet .

astronom usual measur distanc within the solar system in astronom unit. mar is about 1.4 au from the sun, jupit li at roughli 5.2 au, and neptun is roughli 30 au from the sun.

astronom unit is a term that is import to rememb and consid. when we try to understand the univers. 

<titl>artist</titl>
an artist is a person who creat art. thi word is us most often for person and activ of 'high cultur'. that is for exampl draw, paint, sculptur, act, danc, write, filmmak, photographi, and music. sometim a person who is veri good at their job is call an artist, even if it is not consid as art. a scientist or mathematician can be call an artist. 

<titl>anglican</titl>
anglican is the term us for the doctrin, religi belief, faith, system, practic and principl of the church of england and other anglican church. the term at it broadest includ those who have accept the work of the english reform as embodi in the church of england or in the offshoot church which in other countri have adher, at least substanti, to it doctrin, it organ, and it liturgi.

the term anglican deriv from a mediev latin phrase date to at least 1246 - ecclesia anglicana -mean 'the english church'. the noun anglican is us to describ the peopl, institut and church as well as the liturg tradit and theolog concept develop by the state establish church of england and the anglican communion, a theolog broad and often diverg affili of thirti-eight provinc that ar in communion with the archbishop of canterburi. 

<titl>athen</titl>
athen is the capit citi of greec. it is on of the most famou citi in the world. the citi is name after athena. she is the goddess of wisdom and war in greek mytholog. athen ha a popul of over three million peopl and is grow. it is in the prefectur, or divis of the countri, of attica.

it is known that there were settlement in attica region sinc prehistor time. it is unknown, howev, when exactli on of them call for first time "athen". accord to plato , when solon visit egypt, some priest told him that accord to their archiv there wa a citi call athen at least from 9600 bc. of cours that cannot been proven if it's so, yet. 

accord to greek mytholog the name "athen" have given in the time of it first king cecrop, about 2000 bc.

later, the myth o thesea show that the citi wa a vassal of minoic crete until an expedit that overthrown that statu-quo.

accord to homer's iliad athen took the side of mykena in troic war, sent 50 ship under the command of it king menesthea. that show that it wa alreadi a rel major citi of grrece, sinc a few other citi sent more.

athen wa a power citi in classic time. it wa known for the amount of learn that happen there. the citi wa home to plato's academi and aristotl's lyceum. it also had it own constitut. athen also creat the world's first known democraci.

the citi start to declin in 529, when the emperor justinian i close it philosoph school. parthenon had made in cristian church. that act save it later from destract of non christian temopl, in time of deep theocraci.

the ottoman turk took control of athen in 1458. the turk made the parthenon into a muslim mosqu. the parthenon wa later damag in 1687 when gunpowd explod insid it. 

athen wa freed from the turk dure the greek war of independ . it wa then made into the capit of greec.

<titl>anguilla</titl>
anguilla is a group of five island in the caribbean sea. the island ar rule by great britain. 

anguilla wa onc part of what is now saint kitt and nevi, but broke awai in 1980. anguilla want to still be a part of great britain, and saint kitt and nevi want to be independ.

it is name after the spanish word for "eel", becaus it ha such a shape.

 the queen of the unit kingdom is the ruler of anguilla, but she work through a governor. she name, or appoint the governor, and he is just work there in her place. the legislatur is elect by the peopl, ha 11 member, and is call the hous of assembl.

 anguilla get most of it monei from fish and tourism.

 most peopl in anguilla ar protest, and speak english.

<titl>ashmor and cartier island</titl>
the territori of ashmor and cartier island is two group of small low-ly uninhabit tropic island in the indian ocean north-west of australia and south of the indonesian island of roti.

the territori includ ashmor reef and cartier island with, a total area of 199.45 km² within the reef and includ the lagoon, and 114,400 m² of dry land. thei have a long coastlin, over 74 km, but there ar no port or harbour, onli offshor anchorag. nearbi hibernia reef, 42 km northeast of ashmor reef, is not part of the territori, becaus it ha no perman dry land area, although larg part of the reef becom expos dure low tide.

the territori is administ from canberra by the australian depart of the environ and heritag. therefor it is a depend within the commonwealth. the island ar visit by season caretak.

<titl>alexand mackenzi</titl>
alexand mackenzi, pc wa the second prime minist of canada.

<titl>ashoka the great</titl>
ashoka mean "he who is love by the god and who is friendli to everyon". he wa an indian emperor, of the maurya dynasti of india who rule from 273 bce to 232 bce. often cite as on of india's greatest emperor, ashoka reign over most of present-dai india after a number of militari conquest. after fight a war with 200,457 casualti, he decid to becom a buddhist and lead with peac, not war. in order to accomplish thi, he set up hospit for anim and human, as well as shade and rest area along road for weari travel to rest. 

<titl>arian</titl>
arian is a form of christian. it ha come from ariu. arian ha stop be practic todai, but wa import dure the roman era, into the middl ag.

the main differ between the belief of arian and other main christian denomin is that the arian did not believ in the holi triniti, which is a wai that other christian church us to explain god. the inform that we have todai come from the write of peopl who were against arian and said the belief were wrong. 

between the first council of nicaea in 325, and the first council of constantinopl in the year 381 there were no less than 18 differ creed us by arianist.

 in the 16th centuri there wa again a movement against the belief in triniti. a well-known person teach thi wa fausto sozzini . anoth on wa ferenc dávid . these movement develop into what is call unitarian todai. unitarian believ that there is onli on person in god, not the three-in-on dogma of triniti. some of the teach of jehovah's wit ar close to some of the thing arian believ. it is differ onli in that arian believ the holi spirit is a person and jehovah's wit teach it is not a person, but a forc god us to do hi will. it would howev be fals to call them arian, as thei reject mani arian teach. mormon and on pentecost also reject the triniti but for differ reason other than arian.

<titl>advanc encrypt standard</titl>
in cryptographi, the advanc encrypt standard , which is also known as rijndael, is a block cipher algorithm us as an encrypt standard by the u.s. govern. it ha been look at a lot and is now us all over the world, as wa the case with it predecessor, the data encrypt standard . ae wa announc by nation institut of standard and technolog as u.s. fip pub 197 on novemb 26, 2001 after a 5-year standard process in which fifteen compet design were present and evalu befor rijndael wa select as the most suitabl. it becam effect as a standard mai 26, 2002. as of 2008, ae is on of the most popular algorithm us in symmetr kei cryptographi. it is avail by choic in mani differ encrypt packag. thi mark the first time that the public ha had access to a cipher algorithm approv by nsa for top secret inform.

thi cipher algorithm wa develop by two belgian cryptograph, joan daemen and vincent rijmen, and submit to the ae select process under the name "rijndael", a portmanteau of the name of the inventor. .

"the design and strength of all kei length of the ae algorithm ar suffici to protect classifi inform up to the secret level. top secret inform will requir us of either the 192 or 256 kei length. the implement of ae in product intend to protect nation secur system and/or inform must be review and certifi by nsa prior to their acquisit and us."

mani ae public product us 128-bit secret kei by default; it is possibl that the nsa mai assum that 128-bit secret kei ar weak and thei mai prefer longer kei for top secret document. 

unlik de , ae is a substitut-permut network, not a feistel network. ae is fast in both softwar and hardwar, is rel easi to implement, and requir littl memori. as a new encrypt standard, it is current be deploi on a larg scale on variou platform.

<titl>analyt engin</titl>
a machin that charl babbag design. it wasn't ever actual built.

<titl>augustu</titl>
caesar augustu wa the first and on of the most import roman emperor. he led rome into the first stage of becom the mightiest empir the world had ever seen. 

octavian augustu caesar wa the adopt son of the dictat of the roman republ, gaiu juliu caesar. octavian came into power in the second triumvir , along with marcu antoniu and lepidu. augustu and antoniu were loyal to juliu caesar, the assassin dictat, kill in 44 bc. follow hi death a civil war broke out across rome, between those loyal to caesar, and those loyal to caesar's rival pompei. there wa short break in the war dure the rule of the triumvir, but lepidu' death, and mark antoni's stai in egypt with cleopatra, onli result in further and further bloodsh. 

after win thi bloodi power struggl, octavian wa vote as the first emperor of rome by the senat follow the battl of actium in 31 bc, and he took the name "augustu" . he rule until ad 14, when hi stepson and son-in-law tiberiu becam emperor in hi place.

dure hi reign, some of those who were against hi govern were murder . he had promis to make rome a republ again, but instead proclaim himself with more titl includ chief priest, and mani templ in the provinc set up statu of him as on of their god. the name of the month "august" in english come from him.

hi main accomplish wa the creation of the roman empir, a polit structur that last for nearli five centuri more. 

<titl>apocrypha</titl>
the apocrypha ar religi text that ar in some version of the bibl. other version omit them. the word come from ancient greek ἀπόκρυφα . apocrypha mean those that were hidden. gener, the term is appli to write that were not part of the canon. there ar sever reason why these text were not includ in the canon. the text might onli have been known to few peopl, or thei might have been left out becaus their content doe not fit well into that of the other book of the bibl. some of the apocrypha were written at a later date, and where therefor not includ. 

the author king jame version call these book ‘apocrypha’. it separ them, becaus the bibl said so in 2 esdra 14:46, but keep the seventi last, that thou mayest deliv them onli to such as be wise among the peopl: for in them is the spring of understand, the fountain of wisdom, and the stream of knowledg.

roman cathol bibl have these book in the old testament. thei do not call them apocrypha. thei call them deuterocanon, which mean that thei belong to the second canon. canon just mean an offici list of literari work accept as repres a field. the first list is of book first written in hebrew. thi second list is of book first written in greek.

 these book were kept in cathol bibl becaus it is believ that the bibl jesu read wa a bibl that includ the book of the "apocrypha," the deuterocanon book. it is known that the most popular bibl at the time of jesu wa the greek septuagint version - which includ these extra book. that is why earli church father quot from bibl includ these book.

 christian disagre about the ‘apocrypha’. other point out that the ‘apocrypha’ wa in everi christian bibl until 1828. in 1828 these book were taken out of some bibl. the translat of the king jame bibl said that these book were written to prepar the peopl for jesu, in the same wai as john the baptist did. thei said that the apostl us these book. 

there is no question that these book have alwai been part of the bibl in orient orthodox church, so thei were definit not ad in the 1500s. around the year 80 ad, the jewish council decid to cut the book from the hebrew bibl, but thei stai in the christian bibl. then soon after christian becam the onli religion of roman empir in the 4th centuri, the roman decid to cut out all of the same book that the sanhedrin had cut out, and thei move some of them to the "apocrypha".

note: other candid for apocryph scriptur includ supposedli lost portion of esther and sirach.

<titl>antarct treati system</titl>
the at is us for govern the contin.

it wa start in june 23rd, 1961 when twelv countri came togeth and sign a contract agre to abid by the law abov. nowadai there ar at least 46 countri involv.

<titl>am, iowa</titl>
am is a citi of iowa in the unit state. in 2006 there were 54,181 peopl live in the citi. it is wa built between skunk river and squaw creek, 35 mile north of the state capit, de moin. the town wa first settl in 1864 as a railwai town at a spot where the skunk river could be cross easili. it wa name after oak am, a member of the us congress who support build the railwai. 

am is the home of the iowa state univers. it is also famou for be the home of the u.s depart of agricultur's nation anim diseas center.

<titl>abalon</titl>
abalon ar a type of gastropod shellfish.

abalon ar known by their color insid shell. thi is also call ear-shell, ormer in guernsei, perlemoen in south africa, and pāua in new zealand.

the meat of thi shellfish is thought to be delici in some part of latin america , south east asia, and east asia .

 abalon live all over the world. thei can be seen along the water of everi contin, except the atlant coast of south america, the caribbean, and the east coast of the unit state. most abalon ar found in cold water, along the coast of new zealand, south africa and australia, and western north america and japan in the northern hemispher. in the chilean pacif coast, the speci call loco ha a hard, black shell, and is eaten by mani peopl.

abalon have uniqu featur: the shell is round, with two to three spiral. the last spiral is grown into a larg "ear"-like shape, which explain the name 'ear-shell'. the insid of the shell is shini, from silveri white to green-red mother-of-pearl.

abalon can start to give birth at a small size. their fertil is high and increas with size .

young albalon, call larva, feed on plankton. the adult eat plant and feed on alga. thei like to eat red alga. their size can be as small as 20 mm to as big as 200 mm. 

 the shell of the abalon is known for be veri strong. it is made of veri tini calcium carbon tile stack like brick. between the layer of tile is a sticki protein substanc. allerg skin reaction and asthma attack can happen when breath the dust made when these tile ar broken down.

the color insid part of the abalon shell can be us for decor inlai, in guitar, for exampl.

sport harvest of red abalon is allow with a california fish licens and an abalon stamp card. abalon mai onli be taken us breath-hold techniqu: freediv or shorepick. scuba dive for abalon is strictli not allow. abalon harvest is not allow south of the mouth of the san francisco bai. there is a size minimum of seven inch measur across the shell and a limit of three per dai and 24 per year that can be taken. abalon mai onli be taken in april, mai, june, august, septemb, octob and novemb, but thei mai not be taken in juli, decemb, januari, februari or march. transport of abalon is onli legal while the abalon is still attach to the shell. sale of sport-caught abalon is illeg, includ the shell. onli red abalon mai be taken; black, white, pink, and flat abalon ar protect by law.

an abalon diver normal us a veri thick wetsuit, includ a hood, booti, and glove. he or she would also wear a mask, snorkel, weight belt, abalon iron, and abalon gaug. it is common to take abalon in water a few inch up to 10 m/28' deep. freediv who can work deeper than 10 m/28' ar less common. abalon ar normal found on rock near food sourc . an abalon iron is us to pry the abalon from the rock befor it can fulli clamp down. visibl is normal five to ten feet. diver commonli dive out of boat, kayak, tube float or directli off the shore. an eight inch abalon is consid a good catch, a nine inch would be veri good, and a ten inch plu abalon would be an excel catch. rock- or shore-pick is a differ method from dive where the rock picker feel below rock dure low tide for abalon.

there ha been a trade in dive to catch abalon off part of the unit state coast from befor 1939. in world war ii, mani of these abalon diver were recruit into the unit state arm forc and train as frogmen.

there have been a number of attempt to artifici grow abalon for the purpos of consumpt.

<titl>arminian</titl>
arminian is a school of soteriolog thought in protest christian theologi found by the dutch theologian jacobu arminiu.

<titl>antimatt</titl>
antimatt is stuff within the univers that is the equal and opposit of matter. it look just like matter and act just like matter, but cannot touch matter. if the matter and the anti matter touch thei will becom complet neutral and annihil each other 

 in physic, all the elementari particl, or the basic build block of the thing we can touch, come in pair. each particl ha what is call an antiparticl, much like an evil twin, which mai look and act just like the regular particl, except for on major differ. an exampl is the electron and the positron. thei both weigh the same, and act the same, but the electron ha a neg electr charg, while the positron ha a posit electr charg, which is where the positron get it name.

other antimatt particl ar the same wai, where thei have the same weight, and look and act the same as regular particl, but their electr charg is the opposit of regular particl. antihydrogen, for exampl, ha the positron, which is posit charg, orbit around an antiproton, which is neg charg, which is the opposit wai regular hydrogen look, which ha the electron , orbit around a proton .

 albert einstein, a veri famou scientist, found a formula that can tell how much energi a certain amount of someth ha, whether it is matter or antimatt. thi formula is , and is on of the most well known equat. in simpl term, if you take the mass of someth and then multipli it by the speed of light, and then multipli it by the speed of light again, you'll get how much pure energi a given piec of someth ha. sinc the speed of light is such a big number, thi mean that even a small amount of matter can have a lot of energi.

the reason thi is import to understand antimatt is becaus scientist found that when matter and antimatt touch each other, the amount of energi that is releas come veri close to the amount of energi sai should be all togeth in those two piec. the reason is that each particl of matter, when it touch it antiparticl in the antimatt world, both chang over into pure energi, or annihil each other. thi releas of such a high amount of energi is why a lot of scienc fiction writer us antimatt for fuel in their stori. for exampl, author dan brown us antimatt in "angel and demon" as a veri power weapon, if onli to make the stori interest. it is also be look at as a fuel sourc for real-life mission to outer space in the futur.

 a lot of scientist think that in the first few moment after the big bang, which creat the univers a veri long time ago, there wa both matter and antimatt mix togeth. sinc there wa just a littl bit more matter than antimatt creat , whatev wa left over after most of the matter and antimatt annihil into energi becam the univers we see todai. physicist don't yet know for sure that equal amount of matter and antimatt were creat, and becaus of thi, thei ar also wonder where the antimatt went, and if ani wa left over from the begin of the univers.

 becaus antimatt can make so much energi, it can be us for a lot of thing, such as fuel for go into outer space, or in our car. the problem is that antimatt is veri veri expens to make, and is almost as expens to store, sinc it cannot touch regular matter. it take sever hundr million dollar to make less than on-millionth of a gram of antimatt! in fact, it is the most expens and rare substanc on earth. sinc it is so expens, thi mean that antimatt is not practic to us as a weapon or as an energi sourc, becaus so littl of it is avail.

it doe have a us in medicin, becaus a special kind of scanner call the pet, which stand for positron emiss tomographi, us positron to go into the human bodi. doctor can look at the wai the positron chang into energi insid a person's bodi, and be abl to tell if someth is wrong insid a person. thi kind of machin work differ than an x-rai machin or an magnet reson imag machin, and can help doctor see thing that those other machin cannot see.

<titl>antiparticl</titl>
correspond to most kind of particl, there is an associ antiparticl with the same mass and opposit charg. 

even electr neutral particl, such as the neutron, ar not ident to their antiparticl. in the exampl of the neutron, the 'ordinari' particl is made out of quark and the antiparticl out of antiquark.

particl-antiparticl pair can annihil each other if thei ar in appropri quantum state. thei can also be produc in variou process. these process ar us in todai's particl acceler to creat new particl and to test theori of particl physic. high energi process in natur can creat antiparticl. these ar visibl in cosmic rai and in certain nuclear reaction. the word antimatt properli refer to antiparticl, composit antiparticl made with them and to larger assembl of either.

in 1932, soon after the predict of positron by paul dirac, carl d. anderson found that cosmic-rai collis produc these particl in a cloud chamber— a particl detector in which move electron leav behind trail as thei move through the ga. 

the antiproton and antineutron were found by emilio segrè and owen chamberlain in 1955 at the univers of california, berkelei. sinc then the antiparticl of mani other subatom particl have been creat in particl acceler experi. in recent year, complet atom of antimatt have been assembl out of antiproton and positron, collect in electromagnet trap.

<titl>associ</titl>
associ is a properti of mathemat oper . it mean that if you have more than on of the same associ oper in a row, the order of oper doe not matter.

for exampl, if you have , there ar two plu sign in a row. thi mean we can add it in either thi order:

the answer come out the same both wai becaus addit is associ.

not all oper ar associ. subtract is not associ, which mean:

also, associ is differ from commut, which let you move the number around.

<titl>apatosauru</titl>
apatosauru wa a sauropod dinosaur that live in the jurass period. it wa known befor as brontosauru. it grew as big as 21 meter long, 4.5 meter tall at the hip, and weigh up to 23 metric ton. it at plant. the bone of apatosauru have been found in wyom, colorado, oklahoma, and utah in the unit state.

when it wa first found, scientist thought that apatosauru live partli under water, sinc it could not hold it own weight on dry land. now thei think it live on dry land, probabl in herd.

<titl>allosauru</titl>
allosauru wa a predatori meat-eater dinosaur from the jurass period. it averag nine meter in length. there ar four speci of allosauru: allosauru grew to about the size of tyrannosauru and weigh 1-3 ton.

<titl>ak-47</titl>
the ak-47 is a russian assault rifl design in 1947 by mikhail kalashnikov and first us in 1949. it and two updat version call the akm and ak-74 were us by the soviet union's militari . the ak-47 quickli becam famou and spread all around the world becaus it wa so simpl for an automat gun. the ak-47 and it successor continu to be us by mani of the world's armi and insurg. it is a cheap, reliabl, and easi to us weapon.

the ak-47 wa on of the first gun to us a method call ga-oper reload. when the bullet is move down the barrel, a littl bit of the ga behind the bullet is made to go up a small tube that push awai the bolt. thi is special becaus the person who is shoot the gun doe not have to reload with their hand everi time that thei want to shoot - the gun reload by itself.

the ak-47 us mani simpl idea that were first invent for the german sturmgewehr 44 ww2 assault rifl. the ak-47 is a common gun us by mani group becaus it is so cheap and avail. on of the reason it is so common is that the soviet left mani behind when thei left afghanistan. the letter ak stand for avtomat kalashnikova, which is russian for kalashnikov's automat rifl. it shoot the soviet 7.62x39mm cartridg. it is onli accur up to 300 meter. after that the bullet start to tumbl and drop. 

<titl>and</titl>
the and ar a mountain rang along the western coast of south america. thei stretch over 7,000 km / 4,400 mile from the south of argentina and chile to the north of colombia. the and ar the longest expos mountain rang of the world, and the second highest after the himalaya. thei ar found mostli in peru and bolivia. the and mountain rang is the highest mountain rang outsid asia. aconcagua, the highest peak, rise to 6,962 m abov sea level. the top of mount chimborazo in the ecuadorean and is the point on the earth's surfac most distant from it center. mount chimborazo is a mountain. it is also a inact volcano in ecuador. peopl think that it last erupt wa over a thousand year ago.

the and can be put into three section: the southern and in argentina and chile; the central and, have the chilean and peruvian mountain system and part of bolivia; and the northern part in venezuela, colombia, and ecuador, have of two parallel rang. thei ar the cordillera occident and the cordillera orient. in colombia, north to the border with ecuador, the and split in three parallel rang, western, central and eastern. in the northern part the cut off sierra nevada de santa marta rang is often thought as part of the and. the eastern rang is the onli on that reach venezuela. the term cordillera come from the spanish word mean 'rope'. the and rang is about 200 k wide throughout it length, except in bolivia where it is 640 k wide. the island of the dutch caribbean aruba, bonair, and curaçao, which lie in the caribbean sea off the coast of venezuela, repres the submerg top of the northern edg of the and rang. 

the climat in the and differ depend on where, altitud, and how close it is to the sea. the southern section is raini and cool. the central and ar dry. the northern and ar normal raini and warm, with an averag temperatur of 18 c in colombia. the climat is known to chang veri much in rather short distanc. rainforest exist just mile awai from the snow cover peak cotopaxi. the mountain have a larg effect on the temperatur of nearbi area. the snow line depend on the locat. it is at between 4,500-4,800 m in the tropic ecuadorian, colombian, venezuelan, and northern peruvian and, go up to 4,800-5,200 m in the drier mountain of southern peru south to northern chile south to about 30°s, then go down to 4500 m on aconcagua at 32°s, 2000 m at 40°s, 500 m at 50°s, and onli 300 m in tierra del fuego at 55°s; from 50°s, mani of the bigger glacier go down to sea level.

the and of chile and argentina can be put in two climat and glaciolog zone; the dry and and the wet and. sinc the dry and reach from the latitud of atacama desert to the place of maul river, rain is more on and off, and there ar strong temperatur wave. the line of even mai chang veri much over a short amount of of time. thi leav a whole glacier in the ablat place or in the accumul area.

 rainforest us to hold much of the northern and but ar now mostli diminish, especi in the chocó and inter-andean vallei of colombia. as a direct opposit of the humid andean slope ar the mostli dry andean slope in most of western peru, chile and argentina. along with mani interandean vall, thei ar normal rule by decidu woodland, shrub and xeric veget, reach in the slope near the mostli lifeless atacama desert.

about 30,000 speci of vascular plant live in the and. about half of those ar endem to the region, go past the differ of ani other hotspot. the small tree cinchona pubescen, a sourc of quinin which is us to treat malaria, is found wide in the and as far south as bolivia. other import crop that came from the and ar tobacco and potato. the high-altitud polylepi forest and woodland ar found in the andean place of colombia, ecuador, peru, bolivia and chile. these tree, by local ar call queñua, yagual and other name, can be found at altitud of 4500 m abov sea level. it is still unclear if the patchi distribut of these forest and woodland is natur, or the result of clear which began dure the incan time. regardless, in modern time the clearanc ha had a faster pace, and the tree ar now thought to be highli endang, with some think that as littl as 10% of the origin woodland is still here.

the and ha a lot of wildlif. with almost 1,000 speci, of which about 2/3 ar endem to the region, the and is the most import region in the world for amphibian. anim divers in the and is high, with almost 600 speci of mammal , more than 1,700 speci of bird , more than 600 speci of reptil , and almost 400 speci of fish .

the vicuña and guanaco can be found live in the altiplano, while the close relat domest llama and alpaca ar commonli kept by local as pack anim and for their meat and wool. the nocturn chinchilla, two threaten member of the rodent order, live in the and' alpin region. the andean condor, the largest bird of it kind in the western hemispher, live throughout much of the and but mostli in veri low number. other anim found in the mostli open habitat of the high and ar the huemul, cougar, fox in the genu pseudalopex. and for bird, some speci of tinam , ar the andean goos, giant coot, flamingo , lesser rhea, andean flicker, diadem sandpip-plover, miner, sierra-finch and diuca-finch. 

<titl>anchor</titl>
anchor ar us to stop boat from move. todai, anchor ar usual made of metal, and thei ar made to catch the ocean floor .

there ar two main type of anchor: temporari and perman. a perman anchor is call a moor block and is not easili move. a temporari anchor can be move and is carri on the boat. when peopl talk about anchor, thei ar usual think about temporari anchor.

an anchor work by either weight or shape. shape is more import to temporari anchor, and design is veri import. anchor must resist wind and tide, and also the up-and-down movement of wave.

the oldest anchor were just rock, and mani rock anchor have been found from a long time ago. mani modern moor still us a larg rock as the moor block.

a simpl anchor which us two arm made of wood, and a rock weight, is an anchor which is still us todai. the wood arm ar sharp to enter the seab, and the weight will hold normal movement.

the english languag us sever special word to describ part of anchor. thi is becaus england ha a rich marin and naval histori, and so the languag give a larg number of word to boat and ship terminolog.

a modern temporari anchor usual ha a middl bar call the shank, attach to a flat surfac which hold the seab. the place where the shank meet the fluke is call the crown, and the shank is usual fit with a ring or shackl to attach it to the rode . some old anchor have attach to the shank a stock, which is a bar that place the anchor in a certain wai when it fall on the seab. old anchor ar often name "stock" or "stockless" anchor depend on whether thei have thi, or not.

there ar mani design.

over the last 20 year, mani new anchor design have appear. these anchor ar usual design for small vessel, and ar usual not for larg ship. see modern design.

the fisherman ha a tradit design that ha not chang much over time. it is less us than a good modern design, and it hold power for it weight is among the worst of all anchor type.

the most common brand of fluke anchor is the danforth. the danforth style us a stock at the crown , to which two larg flat fluke ar attach. the stock can rotat, so the fluke can move toward the bottom. it can hold veri well but ha difficulti set on it own. it is effici for it weight.

fluke anchor have difficulti penetr kelp and weed seab, as well as veri hard sand or clai seab. onc set, the anchor can come free and fail to reset on it own.

a tradit design, the grapnel style is simpl to design and build. it is a simpl hook that is good for rock or reef. it is useless for most other seab.

the origin cqr wa invent in 1933 in the unit kingdom. mani copi of it now exist. plow us to be popular with sailor and privat boater. thei ar good but not excel in most seab. anoth more recent design is the delta which is better.

plow us a special weight in the tip of the fluke for them to work properli. thi make them heavi.

the genuin cqr and delta brand ar now own by lewmar.

the genuin bruce wa invent in the 1970's and to try to solv some problem of the plow. mani copi ar now made. thi type of anchor is now call a "claw-type". claw anchor can set quickli in some seab, but do not hold well for their weight, and can let go veri suddenli.

bruce anchor group no longer make the genuin bruce. most copi ar lower qualiti than the genuin bruce.

modern anchor ar design to be better than the plow and claw type. mani ar new, still under patent and own by commerci compani or ti to certain brand.

mani modern design ar better than the older type. thi chart show test done by west marin in 2006 . the anchor were test on three differ sandi seab, at three differ scope .

six of the seven best anchor on thi chart ar "modern", but sever modern anchor did veri badli. thi show that 'newer' is not alwai better.

 perman anchor ar us when a float thing must be kept in place for a long time. thei ar us to anchor lightship, navig buoi, and moor. the anchor must hold in all weather, even the worst storm.

 a deadweight anchor is a heavi weight. it can be us when the bottom is too hard for other type of anchor. it can be made of a larg rock or a concret block.

mushroom and pyramid anchor ar good where the seab is soft. thi type of anchor need time to dig into the seab. it can be smaller and lighter than a deadweight anchor. the mushroom anchor is shape like a mushroom, and the pyramid anchor is shape like a pyramid with the apex point down. 

 the sand screw must be screw into the seab befor it is us. it can be veri light.

<titl>anagram</titl>
an anagram is a puzzl where the player ha to rearrang all the letter in a word to make a new word. 

an exampl would be the mors code and here come dot.

<titl>andré-mari ampère</titl>
andré-mari ampère wa a french physicist and mathematician who help discov electromagnet. an electr unit call the amper is name after him.

 amper wa born in lyon, franc in 1775. dure hi childhood, amper's father taught him latin, until he found out that hi son wa talent in mathemat studi. howev, young amper continu hi studi on latin, so that he could understand and master the work of euler and bernoulli. in hi later life, amper began to distinguish himself in mathemat field; not onli wa he special in mathemat field, but also he studi histori, travel, poetri, phiolosophi, and the natur scienc. dure the year of french revolut, a great sorrow came to amper's life; he lost hi father who wa execut by revolutionari. the death of hi father brought a huge impact to amper. in 1796, he met the daughter of a blacksmith live near lyon name juli carron, and marri her in 1799. afterward, amper work as a professor in lyon, give lesson in mathemat, chemistri, languag, and physic. he continu work as a professor even after the death of her wife in 1803. howev, her death bother amper for the rest of hi life. amper pass awai at marseil and buri in the cimetier de montmartr, pari. in hi work journal et correspond, we can see hi amiabl and childlik simplic of hi charact.

 amper is most known for establish the relationship between electr and magnet, and combin them into a new field call electromagnet, or electrodynam. on septemb 11, 1820, amper heard from the discoveri of h.c.orst that a magnet needl can be activ by a voltaic current. onli a week later, he came up with a much more advanc version of that kindr phenomena. it wa such a amaz develop. on the same dai, he also discov that parallel wire carri current attract or repel each other. thi ha later becom fundament of a field call electrodynam.

<titl>ammonia</titl>
ammonia is a chemic. it formula is nh3 . it is made from nitrogen and hydrogen atom.

 if a goldfish tank is dirti from their wast thei can suffer from ammonia burn which caus black spot or patch to come up on their bodi. make sure the tank is big enough and filter.

<titl>amethyst</titl>
an amethyst is a sometim transpar miner that come from quartz. it is a type of rock. it is valu becaus of it violet colour. even though it is from quartz, it ha more iron oxid than ani other kind of quartz. becaus of thi, some expert think that it colour come from the iron in it. heat the amethyst either take awai it colour or chang it to a yellow color. amethyst ar found in brazil, uruguai, ontario, and north carolina. the rock amethyst is the birthston of the month februari.

 mani peopl believ amethyst protect on from poison, evil, and get drunk. thi is where the name of thi rock came from, the greek word amethusto, mean "without be drunken". also thei ar thought to be good for hear, recov from headach, good dream, and more. some cathol pope also wear it around their neck. also, some roman women thought gem could keep their husband faith to them.

amethyst ar also worn becaus peopl think it make them look gentl. the “power” in the amethyst also includ heal, peac, love, more spiritu, courag, protect from robber, and happi.

in the moh scale, it is includ as the number seven.

 the amethyst is veri famou for be on of the main gemston of christian and catholic. some cathol pope wear amethyst around their neck becaus thei think it make them look piou and more holi. also in christian, the bibl sai about a breastplat decor with jewel worn by aaron, the most high priest of the hebrew. it had 12 jewel on it, and the amethyst wa the third stone in the third row. in the new testament, accord to the bibl, the amethyst becam the foundat of the jerusalem. thi descript came out in book of revel. each gemston wa a symbol of someth. the amethyst stood for be a gift of tongu and wa fill with the desir to pleas god.

 the amethyst is worn and us for fashion in a number of differ wai. it is polish and shape for ring, ear, and cuff link. it mai be also us for brooch, sometim be carv into a cluster of grape. peopl like the wai amethyst look especi when thei ar put in gold and diamond.

 in the legend, there ar mani stori about amethyst. on of them claim how amethyst were legendarili creat. accord to the stori, bacchu, the roman god of wine and convivi, wa angri becaus of someth against him and want to reveng. he order that the first person who wa mortal to come across hi path would be eaten by tiger. just at that moment a beauti maiden name amethyst came, on her wai to worship the goddess diana. diana saw what wa go to happen and she quickli made amethyst a stone to save her from the tiger. when bacchu saw thi, he repent and pour wine over the stone, make it color purpl.

 the amethyst is worn a lot by king and queen, and high peopl. thi is becaus it royal color wa purpl. when it wa found in the minoan period in greec , it wa polish and shape like cabochon . then, it wa set in gold. dure the 15th centuri, the french fleur-de-li brooch could onli be worn by the royal famili on special time. the fleur-de-li design on it is put in with sapphir and amethyst.

<titl>albertosauru</titl>
albertosauru wa a rel of tyrannosauru. the albertosauru wa smaller than t. rex and live a few million year earlier. albertosauru walk on two leg and had a larg head with sharp, saw-tooth teeth. it had two-finger hand on short arm. it long tail provid balanc and quick turn. it had power back leg with claw, three-to feet.

albertosauru wa about 30 feet long, about 11 feet tall at the hip, and up to 3 ton in weight . the lower jaw of albertosauru had from 14 and 16 teeth; the upper jaw had 17-19 teeth. it had on row of teeth in each jaw but had at least on replac tooth grow up from under each tooth.

<titl>assembl languag</titl>
an assembl languag is a program languag that can be us to directli tell the comput what to do. an assembl languag is almost exactli like the machin languag that a comput can understand, except that it us word in place of number. a comput cannot realli understand an assembl program directli. howev, it can easili chang the program into machin code by replac the word of the program with the number that thei stand for. a program that doe that is call an assembl. 

program written in assembl languag ar usual made of instruct, which ar small task that the comput perform when it is run the program. thei ar call instruct becaus the programm us them to instruct the comput what to do. the part of the comput that follow the instruct is the processor.

the assembl languag of a comput is a low-level languag, which mean that it can onli be us to do the simpl task that a comput can understand directli. in order to perform more complex task, on must tell the comput each of the simpl task that ar part of the complex task. for exampl, a comput doe not understand how to print a sentenc on it screen. instead, a program written in assembl must tell it how to do all of the small step that ar involv in print the sentenc. 

such an assembl program would be compos of mani, mani instruct, that togeth do someth that seem veri simpl and basic to a human. thi make it hard for human to read an assembl program. in contrast, a high-level program languag mai have a singl instruct such as print "thi is a sentenc" that will tell the comput to perform all of the small task for you.

 when comput scientist first built programm machin, thei program them directli in machin code, which is a seri of number that instruct the comput what to do. write machin languag wa veri hard to do and took a long time, so eventu assembl languag wa made. assembl languag is easier for a human to read and can be written faster, but it is still much harder for a human to us than a high-level program languag which tri to mimic human languag.

 to program in machin code, the programm need to know what each instruct look like in binari . although it is easi for a comput to quickli figur out what machin code mean, it is hard for a programm. each instruct can have sever form, all of which just look like a bunch of number to peopl. ani mistak that someon make while write machin code will onli be notic when the comput doe the wrong thing. figur out the mistak is hard becaus most peopl cannot tell what machin code mean by look at it.

thi hexadecim machin code tell an x86 comput processor to add 42 to the accumul. it is imposs for a person to read and understand unless that person know machin code. 

 with assembl languag, each instruct can be written as a short word, call a mnemon, follow by other thing like number or other short word. the mnemon is us so that the programm doe not have to rememb the exact number in machin code need to tell the comput to do someth. exampl of mnemon in assembl languag includ add, which add data, and mov, which move data from on place to anoth. becaus 'mnemon' is an uncommon word, the phrase instruct type or just instruct is sometim us instead, often incorrectli. the word and number after the first word give more inform about what to do. for instanc, thing follow an add might be what two thing to add togeth and the thing follow mov sai what to move and where to put it.

assembl languag also allow programm to write the actual data the program us in easier wai. most assembl languag have support for easili make number and text. in machin code, each differ type of number like posit, neg or decim, would have to be manual convert into binari and text would have to be defin on letter at a time, as number.

assembl languag provid what is call an abstract of machin code. when us assembl, programm do not need to know the detail of what number mean to the comput, the assembl figur that out instead. assembl languag actual still let the programm us all the featur of the processor that thei could with machin code. in thi sens, assembl languag ha a veri good, rare trait: it ha the same abil to express thing as the thing it is abstract while be much easier to us. becaus of thi, machin code is almost never us as a program languag.

 when program ar finish, thei have alreadi been transform into machin code so that the processor can actual run them. sometim, howev, if the program ha a bug in it, programm will want to be abl to tell what each part of the machin code is do. disassembl ar program that help programm do that by transform the machin code of the program back into assembl languag, which is much easier to understand. disassembl, which turn machin code into assembl languag, do the opposit of assembl, which turn assembl languag into machin code.

 an understand of how comput ar organ, how thei seem to work at a veri low level, is need to understand how an assembl languag program work. at the most simplist level, comput have three main part: 

 in most comput, memori is divid up into byte. each byte contain 8 bit. each byte in memori also ha an address which is a number that sai where the byte is in memori. the first byte in memori ha an address of 0, the next on ha an address of 1, and so on. divid memori into byte make it byte address becaus each byte get a uniqu address. address of byte address memori cannot be us to refer to a singl bit of a byte. a byte is the smallest piec of memori that can be address.

even though an address refer to a particular byte in memori, processor allow for us sever byte of memori in a row. the most common us of thi featur is to us either 2 or 4 byte in a row to repres a number, usual an integ. singl byte ar sometim also us to repres integ, but becaus thei ar onli 8 bit long, thei can onli hold 28 or 256 differ possibl valu. us 2 or 4 byte in a row rais the number of differ possibl valu to be 216, 65536 or 232, 4294967296, respect. 

when a program us a byte or a number of byte in a row to repres someth like a letter, number, or anyth els, those byte ar call an object becaus thei ar all part of the same thing. even though object ar all store in ident byte of memori, thei ar treat as though thei have a 'type', which sai how the byte should be understood: either as an integ or a charact or some other type . machin code can also be thought of as a type that is interpret as instruct. the notion of a type is veri, veri import becaus it defin what thing can and can’t be done to the object and how to interpret the byte of the object. for instanc, it is not valid to store a neg number in a posit number object and it is not valid to store a fraction in an integ.

an address that point to a multi-byte object is the address to the first byte of that object – the byte that ha the lowest address. as an asid, on import thing to note is that you can’t tell what the type of an object is - or even it size - by it address. in fact, you can’t even tell what type an object is by look at it. an assembl languag program need to keep track of which memori address hold which object, and how big those object ar. a program that doe so is type safe becaus it onli doe thing to object that ar safe to do on their type. a program that doesn’t will probabl not work properli. note that most program do not actual explicitli store what the type of an object is, thei just access object consist - the same object is alwai treat as the same type.

 the processor run instruct, which ar store as machin code in main memori. as well as be abl to access memori for storag, most processor have a few small, fast, fix-size space for hold object that ar current be work with. these space ar call regist. processor usual execut three type of instruct, although some instruct can be a combin of these type. below ar some exampl of each type in x86 assembl languag.

in thi assembl languag, squar bracket around a number mean that the number should be us as an address to the data that should be us. the us of an address to point to data is call indirect. in thi next exampl, without the squar bracket, anoth regist, bx, actual get the valu 20 load into it.

becaus no indirect wa us, the actual valu itself wa put into the regist. 

 here, the memori at address 1000h get the valu of ax. if thi exampl is execut right after the previou on, the 2 byte at 1000h and 1001h will be a 2 byte integ with the valu of 20.

here, 42 and ax ar ad togeth and the result is store back in ax. in x86 assembl it is also possibl to combin a memori access and mathemat oper like thi:

thi instruct add the valu of the 2 byte integ store at 1000h to ax and store the answer in ax.

thi instruct comput the or of the content of the regist ax and bx and store the result back into ax.

usual, instruct ar execut in the order thei appear in memori, which is the order thei ar type in the assembl code. the processor just execut them on after anoth. howev, in order for processor to do complic thing, thei need to execut differ instruct base on what the data thei were given is. the abil of processor to execut differ instruct depend on someth's outcom is call branch. instruct that decid what the next instruct should be ar call branch instruct.

in thi exampl, suppos someon want to calcul the amount of paint thei will need to paint a squar with a certain side length. howev, due to economi of scale the paint store will not sell them ani less than amount of paint need to paint a 100 x 100 squar.

that algorithm can be express in the follow code where ax is the side length.

thi exampl introduc sever new thing, but the first two instruct ar familiar. thei copi the valu of ax into bx and then subtract 100 from bx. 

on of the new thing in thi exampl is call a label, a concept found in assembl languag in gener. label can be anyth the programm want . in thi exampl, the label is 'continu'. it is interpret by the assembl as the address of an instruct. in thi case, it is the address of mult ax. 

anoth new concept is that of flag. on x86 processor, mani instruct set 'flag' in the processor that can be us by the next instruct to decid what to do. in thi case, if bx wa less than 100, sub will set a flag that sai the result wa less than zero.

the next instruct is jge which is short for 'jump if greater than or equal to'. it is a branch instruct. if the flag in the processor specifi that the result wa greater than or equal to zero, instead of just go to the next instruct the processor will jump to the instruct at the continu label, which is mul ax.

thi exampl work fine, but it is not what most programm would write. the subtract instruct set the flag correctli, but it also chang the valu it oper on, which requir the ax to be copi into bx. most assembl languag allow for comparison instruct that do not chang ani of the argument thei're pass, but still set the flag properli and x86 assembl is no except.

now, instead of subtract 100 from ax, see if that number is less than zero, and assign it back to ax, ax is left unchang. the flag ar still set the same wai, and the jump is still taken in the same situat.

 while input and output ar a fundament part of comput, there is no on wai thei're done in assembl languag. thi is becaus the wai i/o work depend on the set up of the comput and the oper system it run, not just what kind of processor it ha. in the exampl section the hello world exampl us ms-do oper system call and the exampl after it us bio call.

it is possibl to do i/o in assembl languag. inde, assembl languag can gener express anyth that a comput is capabl of do. howev, even though there ar instruct to add and branch in assembl languag that will alwai do the same thing there ar no instruct in assembl languag that alwai do i/o.

the import thing to note is that the wai that i/o work is not part of ani assembl languag becaus it is not part of how the processor work.

even though assembl languag is not directli run by the processor - machin code is, it still ha a lot to do with it. each processor famili support differ featur, instruct, rule for what the instruct can do, and rule for what combin of instruct ar allow where. becaus of thi, differ type of processor still need differ assembl languag.

becaus each version of assembl languag is ti to a processor famili, it lack someth call portabl. someth that ha portabl or is portabl can be easili transfer from on type of comput to anoth. while other type of program languag ar portabl, assembl languag, in gener, is not.

as a result of these drawback, high-level languag like pascal, c, and c++ ar us for most project instead. thei allow programm to express their idea more directli instead of have to worri about tell the processor what to do everi step of the wai. thei're call high-level becaus the idea the programm can express in the same amount code ar more complic.

programm write code in compil high level languag us a program call a compil to transform their code into assembl languag. compil ar much harder to write than assembl ar. also, high-level languag do not alwai allow programm to us all the featur of the processor. thi is becaus high-level languag ar design to support all processor famili. unlik assembl languag, that onli support on type of processor, high-level languag ar portabl.

even though compil ar more complic than assembl, decad of make and research compil ha made them veri good. now, there is not much reason to us assembl languag anymor for most project, becaus compil can usual figur out how to express program in assembl languag as well or better than programm.

adosseg .model small .stack 100h

.data hello_messag db 'hello, world!',0dh,0ah,'$'

.code main proc mov ax,@data mov ds,ax

a function that print a number to the screen us bio interrupt written in nasm x86 assembl. modular code is possibl to write in assembl, but it take extra effort. note that anyth that come after a semicolon on a line is a comment and is ignor by the assembl. put comment in assembl languag code is veri import becaus larg assembl languag program ar so hard to understand.

gloop:	inc	si		; length of string 	mov	dx, 0		; zero dx 	div	cx		; divid by base 	cmp	dx, 10		; is it ge 10? 	jge	num 	add	dx, '0'		; add zero to dx 	jmp	anum num:	add	dx, 	; hex valu, add 'a' to dx - 10. anum:	push	dx		; put dx onto stack. 	cmp	ax, 0		; should we continu? 	jne	gloop

<titl>amber</titl>
amber, also call allingit or burmit , is the common name for fossil resin that is appreci for it inher and interest mixtur of colour and it is wide us for the manufactur of ornament object. 

although not miner, it is sometim consid and us as a gemston. neopagan often us the stone for heal. thi stone wa call freya's tear by the ancient nors. most of the world's amber is in the rang of 30–90 million year old. semi-fossil resin or sub-fossil amber is call copal.

amber consist of sever resin bodi more or less solubl in alcohol, ether and chloroform, associ with an insolubl bitumin substanc. 

 baltic amber is found as irregular nodul in a marin sand, known as blue earth, in the lower oligocen strata of sambia in kaliningrad oblast, where it is now systemat mine.

the resin can contain, in addit to the beautifulli preserv plant-structur, remain of insect, spider, annelid, frog, crustacean and other small organ which becam envelop while it wa fluid. in most case the organ structur ha disappear, leav onli a caviti, with perhap a trace of chitin.

although amber is found along the shore of a larg part of the baltic sea and the north sea, the great amber-produc countri is the promontori of sambia, now part of russia. about 90% of the world's extract amber is locat in the kaliningrad region of russia on the baltic sea. amber is extens us for bead and other ornament, and for cigar-holder and the mouth-piec of pipe. 

when gradual heat in an oil-bath, amber becom soft and flexibl. two piec of amber mai be unit by smear the surfac with linse oil, heat them, and then press them togeth while hot. cloudi amber mai be clarifi in an oil-bath, as the oil fill the numer pore to which the turbid is due. small fragment, formerli thrown awai or us onli for varnish, ar now util on a larg scale in the format of "ambroid" or "press amber". the piec ar carefulli heat with exclus of air and then compress into a uniform mass by intens hydraul pressur; the soften amber be forc through hole in a metal plate. the product is extens us for the product of cheap jewelleri and articl for smoke. 

amber wa much valu as an ornament materi in veri earli time. 

<titl>armi</titl>
the armi is the part of a countri's militari that fight on the ground. peopl in the armi ar call soldier. mani modern armi have vehicl such as tank, airplan, and helicopt to help soldier fight on the ground.

a soldier mai be a volunt , or he mai be draft . forc men to join the armi is call conscript or draft. voluntari armi tend to be small by number, but high in moral and qualiti. draft armi ar larg, but often lack in moral and in qualiti: it mai be veri difficult to forc someon to risk hi life against hi will. often draft armi us death penalti to ensur the soldier will fight.

a soldier doe mani thing, from shoot enemi, to us binocular to find out where enemi ar. thei ar us to defend their countri, or attack anoth countri's armi. it is difficult, and a soldier must be in good shape, both physic and mental. thei almost alwai move togeth, and that wai the team can do more thing, in a safer wai. thei mai be assign to certain place to guard, or thei mai be told to search a place, or even attack it. that is up to their command. everi soldier answer to someon els, so that wai, everyth is organ.

 a soldier is suppli with weapon, such as gun, knive, and other simpl gear for surviv in the battlefield, such as food, water, cloth, and tent. thei must keep good care of the item.

 befor a soldier join the armi, he must qualifi to be in it first. the person is put through test, so that the armi will know if the recruit can do it or not. thi is sometim call 'boot camp'. he must complet mental test, and physic test. it depend on where he is test that will tell him how hard it will be. he will also take test to determin what job he will do in the militari. for instanc, he mai work with comput or be a cook for the soldier, or he mai be veri good with a rifl and be a sniper.

<titl>alligatorida</titl>
allig and caiman make up the second largest famili of the crocodilian, alligatorida. there ar 4 genera and about 7 known speci of alligatorid. alligatorid rang in size depend on speci. the chines allig is usual about while the american allig is usual . the largest american allig wa long. the black caiman of the amazon can reach as much as .

alligatorid live in the southern unit state, central america, northern south america and near the yangze river in china. 

 there ar sever differ between allig and crocodil. allig have shorter and wider snout. thei prefer fresh water to saltwat. crocodil have a gland that remov much of the salt. allig do not have thi gland. in allig, the fourth tooth of their lower jaw fit into a pit in the upper jaw. in crocodilian thi tooth fit into a groov on the outsid of the jaw. allig ar also less aggress than crocodilid. usual onli the largest of the speci ar a threat to human.

<titl>alder</titl>
alder is the common name for about 30 kind of tree and shrub of the alnu genu. thei ar a part of the birch famili . most of them ar smaller in size. leav ar mostli decidu, onli veri few alder ar evergreen. 

the best known speci ar the black alder, which can be seen throughout europ. the largest is probabl the red alder, nativ to north america. it reach about 32-35 metr in height. the widespread green alder is a shrub, rare more than 5m high. 

alder is a prefer tree for bee, especi in spring. it is also us to make charcoal. 

<titl>arachnophobia</titl>
arachnophobia is a fear of spider. it is a veri common phobia - mani peopl suffer from it. peopl who have it often feel uncomfort in area where there mai be spider.

<titl>alabast</titl>
alabast is a name appli to varieti of two distinct miner: gypsum and calcit . the former is the alabast of the present dai; the latter is gener the alabast of the ancient. 

<titl>apostl</titl>
an apostl is a messeng and ambassador.

<titl>ahab</titl>
ahab or ach'av or achab in douai-rheim wa king of israel and the son of omri. he is written about in the book of king and the book of chronicl.

ahab son of omri did "more evil in the ey of the lord than ani of those befor him" , as it is written in the bibl. mani think - and sai - that it is probabl becaus of hi evil wife, queen jezebel, daughter of ethbaal king of the sidonian. she wa even more sin than ahab, and come out in the bibl, command ahab to do most of the thing she want. she serv the idol baal and tri to make ahab and all the israelit worship it as well. on of ahab's most famou enemi is an old prophet name elijah. he continu rebuk ahab for be so disobei to the lord, and when ahab summon all the prophet of baal against elijah at mount carmel, and set two altar for them, elijah won by call on god and let fire come and burn the sacrific, and the prophet of baal were immedi kill by the israelit. importantli, even here ahab doe noth, either to stop or help elijah.

 onc, there wa a quit well-known war between ben-hadad king of aram and king ahab. ben-hadad came and, "with thirti-two king with hors and chariot" , he attack samaria. he said to king ahab: "your silver and gold ar mine, and the best of your wive and children ar mine." thi king ahab agre with--but after that, ben-hadad sent anoth more demand command: "i sent to demand your silver and gold, your wive and children. but about thi time tomorrow i am go to send my offici to search your palac and the hous of your offici. thei will seiz everyth you valu and carri it awai."--and king ahab grew annoi. he reject that command, and so ben-hadad decid to battl against ahab. and after that the lord sent a prophet and said, "do you see thi vast armi? i will give it into your hand todai, and then you will know that i am the lord." and he also ad that the young offic of the command will do it, and that king ahab would start the battl.

encourag by thi, ahab took the young offic of the comand, 232 men. then he assembl the rest of the israelit, 7,000 in all. thei set out at noon while ben-hadad and the 32 king with him were in their tent get drunk, and defeat them all, becaus god wa with them. after that, later at spring, as a prophet prophesi to ahab, ben-hadad came again, muster all hi armi. thei came to the vallei, declar triumphantli that god wa a "god of hill" and that wa why the israelit were strong; and now that thei were in the vallei, thei would sure win the battl. but god want to prove that he wa the god of everyth and not onli of the hill, so he help ahab defeat them there, too. ahab then spare ben-hadad's life later, caus god to get angri at ahab and sai through a prophet --"thi is what the lord sai: 'you have set free a man that i had determin should die. therefor it is your life for hi life, your peopl for hi peopl.'" 

 ahab also onc did a great sin that the lord wa veri angri at, and it includ a vineyard of naboh the jezreelit. he want a vineyard belong to naboth the jezreelit, becaus it wa in jezreel and close to hi palac. so ahab said to naboth , "let me have your vineyard to us for a veget garden, sinc it is close to my palac. in exchang i will give you a better vineyard or, if you prefer, i will pai you whatev it is worth." but naboth wa unwil becaus "the lord forbid" that he should give ahab "the inherit of hi father". so ahab wa veri angri and sulki, and when he wa at home he wouldn't eat, and pout on hi bed. then jezebel came over and ask , "why ar you so sullen? why won't you eat?" and ahab explain to her the situat. jezebeel told him to get up, and said that she would get him the vineyard of naboth the jezreelit. so she wrote some letter in ahab's name, place hi seal on them, and sent them to the elder and nobl who live in naboth's citi. it said: "proclaim a dai of fast and seat naboth in a promin place among the peopl. but seat two scoundrel opposit him and have them testifi that he ha curs both god and the king. then take him out and stone him to death." so the elder and nobl did as she told him to, and naboth di a bitter, meaningless death. then jezebel declar to ahab that naboth wa "no longer aliv, but dead" and ahab got up and took possess of nahab's vineyard. the lord wa veri angri at ahab for thi, and said to elijah the tishbit, a prophet--"go down to meet ahab the king of israel, who rule in samaria. he is now in naboth's vineyard, where he ha gone to take possess of it. sai to him, "thi is what the lord sai: 'have you not murder a man and seiz hi properti?' then sai to him, 'thi is what the lord sai, in the place where dog lick up naboth's blood, dog will lick up your blood - ye, your!'" king ahab said to elijah, when he met him , "so you have found me, my enemi!" elijah repli, "i have found you, becaus you have sold yourself to do evil in the ey of the lord. 'i am go to bring disast on you. i will consum your descend and cut off from ahab everi last male in israel - slave or free. i will make your hous like that of jeroboam son of nebat and that of baasha son of ahijah, becauas you ahv provok me to anger and have caus israel to sin.' and also concern jezebel the lord sai: 'dog will devour jezebel by the wall of jezreel.' dog will eat those belong to ahab who die in the citi, and the bird of the air will feed on those who die in the countri." at hear thi, ahab grew afraid, and humbl himself by tear hi cloth, put on sackcloth, and fast. he 'lai in sackcloth and went around meekli.' the lord felt compassion, and said to elijah, "have you notic how ahab ha humbl himself befor me? becaus he ha humbl himself, i will not bring thi disast in hi dai, but i will bring it on hi hous in the dai of hi son."

accord to the bibl, for three year there wa no war between aram and israel. but in the third year, when jehoshaphat king of judah went down to see ahab , ahab said, "let's go retak ramoth gilead from the king of aram! will you go with me?" jehoshaphat repli, "i am as you ar, my peopl as your peopl, my hors as your hors." for thi, he would later be rebuk by the prophet jehu. but he ad: "first seek the counsel of the lord."

king ahab call togeth the prophet—"about four hundr men"—and ask them, "shall i go to attack ramoth gilead or not?" and thei said, "go." these prophet were not realli prophet, but simpli did their "job" by sai thing that thei thought would make the king happi - not what the lord realli said. king jehoshaphat saw that the 400 prophet were not to be trust, and ask to see a real prophet of the lord, sai, "is there not a prophet of the lord here...?" king ahab said that there wa micaiah son of imlah, but "...he never prophesi anyth good about me, but alwai bad." jehoshaphat want to see him, so ahab call him. meanwhil, zedekiah son of kenaanah, on of the 400 prophet, had made iron horn and he cri, "thi is what the lord sai: 'with these you will gore the aramean until thei ar destroi.'" all the other prophet said the same thing. even the messeng who had gone to call micaiah said to him, "let your word agre with their..."

when micaiah came, he said, "attack, and be victori ." but ahab probabl saw that micaiah wa not be seriou, and he said, "...tell me noth but the truth..." so micaiah said that he saw the lord sit on hi throne in heaven, and that the lord had put a "ly spirit" in the mouth of all the prophet, becaus thei did not love the truth and had chosen to speak out of their own heart. at thi, on of the prophet, zedekiah son of kenaanah wa so enrag he went to micaiah and slap him in the face, sai sarcast, "which wai did the spirit from the lord go when he went from me to speak to you?" micaiah repli, "you will find out... you go to hide in an inner room." king ahab put micaiah and prison and went to battl in disguis, think that thi wai nobodi would know who he wa and so micaiah's propheci would not be fulfil . but on of the soldier shot him by mistak, and he had a deep wound and di in hi chariot, watch the battl sadli. as in the propheci of elijah, the dog lick up hi blood. after him, hi son succeed as king, ahaziah and jehoram.

<titl>algol</titl>
algol, also known as the demon star, is a bright star in the perseu constel. it is on of the best known doubl star that can onli be seen in spectroscop, the first star of it type discov, and on of the first variabl star to be discov befor it explod. algol is made of three star and the brightest is persei a. these star partli eclips each other everi 2 dai, 20 hour and 49 minut for 10 hour. 

<titl>amaz grace</titl>
"amaz grace" is a well-known christian hymn. the word were written late in 1772 by englishman john newton.

amaz grace, how sweet the sound that sav’d a wretch like me! i onc wa lost, but now am found, wa blind, but now i see.

’twa grace that taught my heart to fear, and grace my fear reliev’d; how preciou did that grace appear, the hour i first believ’d!

thro’ mani danger, toil and snare, i have alreadi come; ’ti grace ha brought me safe thu far, and grace will lead me home.

the lord ha promi’d good to me, hi word my hope secur; he will my shield and portion be, as long as life endur.

ye, when thi flesh and heart shall fail, and mortal life shall ceas; i shall possess, within the veil, a life of joi and peac.

the earth shall soon dissolv like snow, the sun forbear to shine; but god, who call’d me here below, will be forev mine.

<titl>aol</titl>
america onlin is a u.s.-base onlin servic provid and internet servic provid. it ha been in busi sinc 1985.

 aol instant messeng is a servic which allow to commun with ani user current onlin. aim ha million of user worldwid. there ar also other comput program that can be us to talk with your aim account, for exampl trillian, pidgin, digsbi, and aim+. 

 other aol product ar aol spywar protect, aol safeti and secur center, icq, aol comput check-up, aol explor,aol topspe, aol dialer, aol on-click fix and aol openrid.

<titl>anno domini</titl>
anno domini , shorten as ad or a.d., is us to refer to the year after the birth of jesu. ad is also a shorten for christian era. similarli, befor christ, shorten as bc or b.c., is us in the english languag to refer to all year befor the start of the time period anno domini. the system for work out the year wa invent by dionysiu exiguu in about 525 ad.

<titl>absolut zero</titl>
in theori, absolut zero is the temperatur where the particl of matter stop move. absolut zero is imposs to achiev, becaus all particl move, even if it's just a small vibrat. some peopl have gotten veri close to absolut zero, but the record temperatur wa 100 pk abov absolut zero. 

the kelvin and rankin temperatur scale ar defin so that absolut zero is 0 kelvin or 0 degre rankin . the celsiu and fahrenheit scale ar defin so that absolut zero is −273.15 °c or −459.67 °f.

at thi stage the pressur of the particl is zero. if we plot a graph to it, we can see that the temperatur of the particl is zero. the temperatur cannot go down ani further. and no, the particl cannot move in "revers" either becaus as the movement of particl is vibrat, vibrat in revers would be noth but simpli vibrat again. the closer the temperatur of an object get to absolut zero, the less resist the materi is to electr therefor it will conduct electr almost perfectli, with no measur resist. 

<titl>adiabat process</titl>
adiabat cool is the energi exchang when cloud form. for exampl, the hot air rise and the cold air sink . 

<titl>anim</titl>
anim is a belief common in mani differ religion and philosophi. it is the belief that there ar spiritu be in plant and anim. mani animist religion also believ that act of natur, for exampl - the wind and rain, and geograph featur, for exampl - mountain and river, have spirit in them.

<titl>antonio vivaldi</titl>
antonio vivaldi wa an italian compos. he wa the most import compos in itali at the end of the baroqu period. he wrote more than 400 concerto for variou instrument, especi for the violin. he taught at a school for orphan girl. the music educ there wa veri good and vivaldi wrote a lot of hi music for hi pupil to plai. hi most popular work is the group of four violin concerto call “the four season”. each concerto describ a season: spring, summer, autumn, and winter.

<titl>aar</titl>
the aar is a tributari of the rhine and is the longest river that both come up from and end complet insid of switzerland.

<titl>abraham</titl>
abraham is a charact in the bibl. there, he is said to be the father of all jew. thi is becaus he is their ancestor. the stori about abraham is a part of the jewish, christian and islam religion. 

abraham is the father of isaac and the grandfath of jacob. abraham is believ to be the found patriarch of the israelit, ishmaelit and edomit. abraham wa the third son of terah and the grandson of nahor. abraham's older brother were name nahor and haran.

<titl>acapulco</titl>
acapulco is a town and sea port on the pacif coast of mexico, 300 km southwest from mexico citi. acapulco is locat on a deep, semi-circular bai. it is a stop for ship and cruis line run between panama, and san francisco, california, usa. in 2005 the estim popul wa 722,499 peopl.

it name is a nahuatl word, mean "plain of dens reed". the citi ha been a port sinc the 16th centuri. 

<titl>asgard</titl>
in nors mytholog, asgard is the home of the god . it is a differ place than the home of the mortal, midgard. 

the plain of idavol is the centrer of asgard. the æsir meet there talk about import issu. the male god meet in a hall call gladsheim. the femal goddess in a hall call vingólf. 

it is also an advanc alien race in the scienc fiction seri stargat sg-1.

<titl>apollo program</titl>
the apollo program wa a project by the unit state' nation aeronaut and space administr . the goal wa to send a human to explor the moon and bring him home to earth safe. it wa start by u.s. presid john f. kennedi in 1961. the first person to walk on the moon wa neil armstrong of apollo 11 on june 20, 1969. 

on reason the program start wa that the soviet union wa the first countri to send a person into outer space. sinc thi wa dure the cold war, mani in the u.s. thought that the u.s. need to stai ahead of the ussr in space explor.

the apollo program end in 1972. after that, nasa began to work on the space shuttl program, the intern space station, and mani unman space explor project.

<titl>assault</titl>
an assault is a crime or tort in which somebodi threaten or attempt to hurt someon els.

in some state or legal code, the word "assault" and "batteri" mai mean the same thing.

<titl>alamanni</titl>
the alamanni, allemanni, or alemanni us to be a band of west german tribe found in the upper main, which is the longest tributari of the rhine.

<titl>american stock exchang</titl>
the american stock exchang is a stock exchang in new york citi. it wa creat on broad street near exchang place, dure coloni time. the stock exchang is current own by it own member. 

<titl>alfr russel wallac</titl>
alfr russel wallac wa a british naturalist, explor, biologist and social activist. he is best known for propos a theori of natur select. thi wa publish in 1858 togeth with charl darwin's idea.

wallac did extens natur histori explor. he went first to the amazon river basin with henri walter bate, and later to malaya and indonesia. he wrote book on both these adventur. while in indonesia he drew the wallac line which divid indonesia into two part. on on side ar anim of australasia. on the other side ar speci mostli of asian origin. he wrote a wonder book on the distribut of anim. 

 after a few year of work as a railwai surveyor with hi brother, wallac's life wa chang by meet henri walter bate in leicest in 1847. 

 wallac and bate discuss the idea of an expedit to the amazon. the plan wa to defrai expens by send specimen back to london, where an agent would sell them for a commiss. also, for the travel to "gather fact toward solv the problem of the origin of speci", as wallac put it in a letter to bate. the two friend, who were both by now experienc amateur entomologist, met in london to prepar themselv by view south american plant and anim in the main collect.

bate and wallac sail from liverpool in april 1848, arriv in pará at the end of mai. for the first year thei settl in a villa near the citi, collect bird and insect. after that thei agre to collect independ.

wallac continu chart the amazon for four year, collect specimen and make note on the peopl, the languag, the geographi, flora, and fauna. on 12 juli 1852, wallac embark for england on the brig helen. after twenti-eight dai at sea, balsam in the ship's cargo caught fire and the crew wa forc to abandon ship. all of the specimen wallac had on the ship, most of hi collect, were lost. he could onli save part of hi diari and a few sketch. wallac and the crew spent ten dai in an open boat befor be pick up by the brig jordeson.

 from 1854 to 1862, ag 31 to 39, wallac travel through the dutch east indi , to collect specimen for sale and to studi natur. wallac collect more than 125,000 specimen in the dutch east indi . more than a thousand of them repres speci new to scienc. 

hi observ of the clear zoolog differ across a narrow strait in the archipelago led to hi propos the zoogeograph boundari now known as the wallac line. bali and lombok were two island in the archipelago onli 17 mile apart at the widest , roughli the same size and with the same climat, soil, elev and aspect. yet their flora and fauna were so differ. 

"in thi archipelago there ar two distinct fauna rigidli circumscrib, which differ as much as do those of africa and south america... yet there is noth on the map or on the face of the island to mark their limit. the boundari line pass between island closer togeth than other belong to the same group. i believ the western part to be a separ portion of continent asia, while the eastern is a fragmentari prolong of a former west pacif contin.

why wa it, he wonder, that the anim and plant on the bali side of the channel were of asian type, while those on the lombok side were australasian in type? thi had to mean that the western group had evolv from common western stock, while the eastern group had evolv from a common eastern stock. 

while he wa explor the archipelago, he refin hi thought about evolut and had hi famou insight on natur select. in 1858 he sent an articl outlin hi theori to darwin; it wa publish, along with a descript of darwin's own theori, in the same year.

account of hi studi and adventur there were eventu publish in 1869 as the malai archipelago. it becam on of the most popular natur histori travel journal of the 19th centuri. it wa prais by charl darwin and charl lyell and by other, such as the novelist joseph conrad, who call it hi "favorit bedsid companion".

 unlik darwin, wallac began hi career as a travel naturalist alreadi believ in evolut. both he and bate had read vestig, a controversi work of popular scienc, publish anonym in 1844. thi advoc an evolutionari origin for the solar system, the earth, and live thing. he also read malthu's principl of popul, which he sai "twenti year later gave me the long-sought clue to the effect agent in the evolut of organ speci". he meant by that natur select.

wallac wrote hi idea on the small isl of ternat, in what wa then the dutch east indi. he wa suffer from malaria. while the nativ look after him, hi thought turn to malthu's book. "i thought of clear exposit of the 'posit check to increas' - diseas, accid, war, famin – which keep down the popul... it then occur to me that the same caus, or their equival, ar continu act in the case of anim also... why do some die and some live? and the answer came clearli, that on the whole the best fit live... then it suddenli flash upon me, that thi self-act process would necessarili improv the race..." thi wa the origin of hi letter to darwin, which set out the idea of natur select.

in 1864, wallac publish a paper, the origin of human race and the antiqu of man deduc from the theori of natur select, appli the theori to human be. huxlei had alreadi publish hi view that evolut appli to mankind as it did to other live thing.

wallac thought that natur select could not account for mathemat, artist, or music geniu, as well as metaphys muse, and wit and humour. he eventu said that someth in "the unseen univers of spirit" had interced at least three time in histori. the first wa the creation of life from inorgan matter. the second wa the introduct of conscious in the higher anim. and the third wa the gener of the higher mental faculti in mankind. he also believ that the purpos of the univers wa the develop of the human spirit. 

mani, includ huxlei, hooker, and darwin himself, were highli critic of these idea. as on historian of scienc ha point out, wallac's view in thi area were at odd with two major tenet of darwin. these ar: evolut doe not have a goal, and it is not aim at or center around mankind. it is thought by most biograph that hi think on the evolut of man wa influenc by hi adopt of spiritu, which happen at the same time.

 wallac wa not a believ in reveal religion of ani kind, but he did believ in spiritu. thi ha puzzl biograph, who struggl to think why such a man would believ in spirit. earli in hi life, he experi with hypnosi, which wa then doubt and criticis. he us some of hi student in leicest as subject, with consider success. appar, thi persuad him not to reject idea which were doubt. even when huxlei told him that on of hi favourit medium wa a proven fraud, he refus to believ it. he prefer the evid of hi own experi.

wallac's public support of spiritu, and hi defenc of spiritualist medium against alleg of fraud, damag hi scientif reput. it strain hi relationship with friend such as bate, huxlei and darwin, who felt he wa overli credul. other becam openli hostil to wallac over the issu. wallac and other scientist who defend spiritu were subject to much critic from the press, with the lancet, the lead english medic journal, be particularli harsh. the controversi affect the public's idea of wallac for the rest of hi career, though he wa alwai respect in other wai.

 wallac had a wide rang of interest, and wrote book about all of them. he wrote against vaccin, for phrenolog, for spiritu, for land nationalis, against the moon have canal, and for social chang and the progress and improv of mankind. he did not believ in religion, but he did believ in spiritu. he wa a radic in polit, econom and social reform. he wa a kind and honour person, but he could be a tough oppon if he thought someth unfair wa go on. even the titl of some of hi book were sensat, as for exampl:

 wallac wrote about 22 book, depend on how on count them.

<titl>australian labor parti</titl>
the australian labor parti is on of the two major polit parti in australia. the parti wa made in 1891; it is the oldest polit parti in australia. it is current in power in australia, mean that it run the govern. it current leader and australia's prime minist is kevin rudd. thei ar a liber parti, in direct opposit to their major oppon, the liber parti of australia. 

<titl>aachen</titl>
aachen is a german citi in the state of north rhine-westphalia. it ha about 260,000 inhabit and a well-known univers, the rheinisch-westfälisch technisch hochschul .

 the roman built a spa over hot water spring here in ancient time. 

in the middl ag, it wa the capit citi of the frankish emperor, charlemagn. the citi wa call aix-la-chapel by the french. 

charlemagn order the build of a cathedr in 786 ad. he wa buri in a tomb in thi cathedr. german emperor were crown in the cathedr in aachen until 1531.

european countri made two import peac agreement in aachen. in 1668, the first treati end the war of devolut between franc and the allianc of england, holland and sweden. the treati allow franc to keep most of the town it had captur in flander the year befor. in 1748, the second treati end the war of the austrian success. in thi war, franc, prussia, and other nation tri to take territori from the austrian empir. the treati said that maria theresa of austria wa the ruler of these territori. it also gave prussia the territori of silesia. 

sinc 1972, aachen ha been part of the cologn govern region.

<titl>agat</titl>
agat is a kind of quartz and it is a miner. agat can come in mani differ kind and color. 

<titl>aspirin</titl>
aspirin is the brandnam of acetylsalicyl acid . it ha mani us, but is most commonli us as a pain killer, or us to reduc fever or inflamm. it also ha an antiplatelet effect - it reduc the number of platelet in the blood which reduc blood clot- in that function it is us to prevent heart attack and cancer.

there ar some possibl side-effect to thi drug, for exampl high dose can creat damag to the kidnei and children can develop rey's syndrom through the us of thi drug which caus the liver to becom fatti and not work properli and also the brain to becom enlarg. it can be fatal, howev most children with rey's syndrom surviv with treatment.

peopl with lung, kidnei diseas, gout, hyperuricemia , hemophilia, diabeti or high blood pressur should not take aspirin except on the advic of a qualifi medic profession. nor should peopl who ar allerg to it, to ibuprofen or to naproxen sodium. peopl with asthma where attack ar brought about by aspirin should avoid us aspirin. 

the brand name is trademark by the german firm bayer.

<titl>ainu peopl</titl>
the ainu ar an ethnic group. there ar over 150,000 ainu todai. almost all of them live in japan, but thei have their own cultur and languag that is differ from the japanes.

<titl>acropoli</titl>
the word acropoli mean the edg of a town or a high citi.

<titl>aenea</titl>
aenea wa a trojan princ and hero. hi father wa anchis, hi mother wa the greek goddess aphrodit . both homer and vergil mention him in their stori. vergil wrote a whole seri of book about him. these book ar call aenei in their origin latin. the usual english translat of the titl is aeneid. the book ar about how the citi of rome came to be. thei start with aenea carri hi father out of the burn troi, and end with romulu and remu found rome .

william shakespear also wrote a stori mention aenea. christoph marlow wrote a plai about aenea and dido, the queen who fell in love with him. there is also an opera about dido and aenea, written by henri purcel.

<titl>amaranth</titl>
amaranth is a is a cosmopolitan genu of herb. approxim 60 speci ar recogn, with infloresc and foliag rang from purpl and red to gold. 

although sever speci ar often consid weed, peopl around the world valu amaranth as leaf veget, cereal, and ornament.

<titl>agamemnon</titl>
agamemnon wa a person in greek mytholog. he wa the son of king atreu of mycena and aerop. he wa the brother of menelao. he wa king of mycena.

hi wife wa klytaimnestra, and with her hi children were iphigeneia, elektra, orest and chrysothemi.

in the trojan war he wa the highest leader of the greek armi.

after the trojan war he took kassandra as a slave. she warn him that hi wife klytaimnestra would kill him, but he would not believ her. at home, agamemnon wa kill by klytaimnestra and her lover aegistho.

<titl>aga khan iii</titl>
aga khan iii, gcsi, gcmg, gcie, gcvo, pc wa the 48th imam of the shia ismaili muslim. he wa on of the founder and the first presid of the all-india muslim leagu, and serv as presid of the leagu of nation from 1937-38.

<titl>ajax the lesser</titl>
ajax the lesser wa a greek hero from the trojan war, who wa the son of oïleu.

<titl>alexand i of scotland</titl>
alexand i of scotland wa the son of malcolm canmor and saint margaret. he becam the king of scotland in 1107. in the same year he marri sybilla, who wa an illegitim daughter of henri i of england.

<titl>alexand iii of scotland</titl>
alexand iii , king of scot, wa born at roxburgh on 4 septemb 1241 and di on 19 march, 1286. 

he wa the onli son of alexand ii with hi second wife, mari de couci. alexand's father di on 6 juli 1249 and he offici becam king at the ag of eight. thi happen at scone on 13 juli, 1249.

<titl>alexio i komneno</titl>
alexio i komneno or alexiu i comnenu , byzantin emperor , wa the son of john komneno and anna dalassena. he wa the nephew of isaac i komneno . the militari, financi and territori recoveri of the byzantin empir known as komnenian restor began in hi time.

<titl>andrew jackson</titl>
andrew jackson wa a hero in the war of 1812. he becam the seventh presid of the unit state of america. he wa the first democrat and is on the twenti dollar bill. hi nicknam wa "old hickori".

he is famou for forc nativ american to move west in the trail of tear & around florida everglad. he support a small govern and oppos the bank of the unit state. he support a popular democraci where peopl directli elect their leader instead of the elector colleg elect them. hi legaci wa mix. while some consid him a man of the peopl becaus he support popular democraci, other believ he wa a tyrant becaus is own slave and forc the nativ american to move.

<titl>andrew johnson</titl>
andrew johnson wa the 16th vice-presid and 17th presid of the unit state. befor be presid, he wa a governor and u.s. senat from tennesse. he becam presid in 1865 after abraham lincoln wa kill. he wa a democrat who had been elect with lincoln on a "nation union" ticket, and he didn't get along with congress, which wa run by republican. he is the presid to have the most veto overriden by congress. he wa also the first presid to be impeach, but wa later acquit by on vote, and finish the rest of hi term. he is also the onli us presid never to have gone to school; he wa taught to read by hi wife eliza mccardl johnson. he bought alaska from russia for $2.7 million . 

<titl>aleksandr solzhenitsyn</titl>
aleksandr solzhenitsyn wa a russian writer of novel, dramatist, and historian. with hi work, the gulag, a soviet labor camp, becam well known. due to thi, he won the nobel prize in literatur in 1970, but also wa exil from the soviet union in 1974. in 1994, solzhenitsyn went back to russia. later in hi life, hi health wa bad, and he di on august 3, 2008. he receiv state funer.

<titl>aberdeen</titl>
aberdeen is a citi on the north east coast of scotland where the river dee and don flow into the north sea. it is the capit of the grampian region of scotland. aberdeen is the third largest citi in scotland. the citi's motto is bon accord.

aberdeen is famou for it build made from granit. becaus of the silver-grei colour of the stone, aberdeen is call the "silver citi by the golden sand". aberdeen ha a univers, the univers of aberdeen which wa found on 10 februari 1495 by bishop william elphinston.

the local peopl sometim speak in a dialect call doric. thei ar call aberdonian.

aberdeen ha it own footbal team, aberdeen f.c.. the team plai in the scottish premier leagu. 

each year in august, aberdeen host the aberdeen intern youth festiv. thi is on of the most import annual event in scotland. hundr of group of young perform artist come to aberdeen each year for the festiv. 

<titl>aquacultur</titl>
aquacultur is the farm of fish, shrimp, and alga. aquacultur suppli fish . aquacultur wa develop a long time ago in china and aquacultur suppli for over 20% of all the seafood harvest. howev aquacultur is quit a new activ in canada as it onli began in the 1879. 

<titl>alfr the great</titl>
alfr the great wa king of wessex from 871 to 899. he wa the first monarch from the british isl to style himself as 'king of the anglo-saxon' and so he is sometim consid the first english king. alfr start the royal navi in the 9th centuri.

alfr earn the name 'the great' by defend the kingdom from vike invas. alfr wa a scholar and encourag educ in the kingdom as well as improv the legal system. 

he marri alswitha of mercia, b. 852 - d. 905, known as queen ealswitha. she is buri at the church of st. lawrenc in the squar, winchest, england.

alfr di in 899 but it is not known how he di. he wa succeed by hi son, edward the elder.

<titl>algier</titl>
algier is the capit citi of algeria, which is a countri in northern africa. it is on the northern coast of the countri. the popul of the citi is 1,519,570.

 washington, d.c., unit state 

<titl>almoravid dynasti</titl>
the almoravid were a berber dynasti from the sahara that rule over a wide area of northwestern africa and the iberian peninsula dure the 11th centuri.

under thi dynasti the moorish empir includ present-dai morocco, western sahara, mauritania, gibraltar, tlemcen and a great part of what is now seneg and mali in the south, and spain and portug to the north in europ. at it greatest extent, the empir stretch 3,000 kilometr north to south .

<titl>ag of consent</titl>
if two peopl want to have sex, law sai that thei must have a certain ag. thi is call the ag of consent. at that ag, law sai that the peopl ar matur enough to decid for themselv if thei want to have sex with each other.

the ag of consent vari between state and countri, but it is usual around 12-18 year.

if a person is caught have sex with someon who is below the ag of consent, he or she mai be punish as a sex offend. thei mai have to serv a prison sentenc.

<titl>afonso i of portug</titl>
alphons i or alphonzo i , in portugues afonso i, wa the first king of portug. he is best known by hi princ name afonso henriqu. 

afonso henriqu wa the son of henri of burgundi, count of portug and teresa of león. 

he becam king on 25 juli 1139, after win the battl of ouriqu. he doubl the area of portug with the reconquista and wa nicknam the conqueror . he di on 6 decemb 1185 in coimbra.

<titl>amati</titl>
amati is the name of a famili of italian violin maker. between about 1549 to 1740 thei made some of the most wonder violin that were ever produc. thei work in cremona in itali, the town which is famou for violin make. 

the first famou member of the famili wa andrea amati who wa born some time befor 1511 and di in cremona on 24 decemb 1577. he can be thought of as the inventor of the violin in it modern form. he made violin, viola and cello. a small number of hi instrument ar still in exist. thei ar date between 1564 and 1574 and thei have the coat of arm of charl ix of franc on the back.

andrea amati’s two son were antonio amati who wa born about 1540 in cremona and di there on 14 februari 1607 and girolamo amati who wa born about 1561 in cremona and di of the plagu there on 21 octob 1630. thei ar known as "the brother amati", but thei did not work much togeth. howev, thei both produc some great instrument. thei made the shape of the f hole perfect and gave their instrument more strength. thei also made some larg viola and cello. thei had an enorm influenc on all other violin maker.

 nicolò amati wa the son of girolamo amati. he is now the most famou member of the famili. he wa born on 3 decemb 1596 and di on 12 april 1684 he wa the most emin of the famili. he had becom a veri skill violin maker by 1630 when hi father di. dure the next few year there wa a lot of suffer becaus of the plagu and not mani peopl could afford to bui instrument. then, after 1640, there wa more demand again and nicolò made mani great instrument. those that have surviv ar among the most sought-after and expens violin todai. he made instrument that were slightli wider and were known as the “grand pattern”. mani other violin maker learn from him. these pupil includ andrea guarneri and possibl also antonio stradivari.

 the last maker of the famili wa nicolo's son, girolamo amati, known as hieronymu ii. he wa born on 26 februari and di on 21 februari, 1740. although he made some improv to hi father's instrument, thei ar not as good. antonio stradivari becam the greatest violin maker at thi time.

<titl>amazon</titl>
the amazon were a mythic ancient nation of all-women warrior. herodotu place them in a region around scythia in sarmatia. the histori and legend in greek mytholog mai be inspir by warrior women among the sarmatian.

<titl>amazon river</titl>
the amazon river is a river that flow in tropic forest of south america, mainli brazil. it flow to the atlant ocean. thi river is the biggest by the amount of water it . it move more water than the next eight river by amount put togeth. the amazon, ha the largest drainag basin in the world. it account for about on fifth of the world's total river flow. dure the wet season part of the amazon exce 120 m in width. becaus of it size, it is sometim call the river sea. it is the world's largest river system, even though it is not the world's longest river system. the world's longest river is the nile river. 

it is on of the longest river in the world. there ar differ studi, that tri to measur it length. it is therefor difficult to sai which of these river ar realli the amazon. also note that dure the raini season, the length of the river chang. sever studi from brazil, spain and chile sai it is the longest river in the world, longer than the nile. the nile ha a length of 6.571 km. the amazon mai have a length of 6.937,08 kilometr, about 140 km longer than the nile. the spanish daili newspap el país give it length at 6.850 kilometr. thi would make it about 40 kilometr longer than the nile. in 2007, scientist from peru and brazil calcul a length of 6.800 km.

a studi done in 1969 sai that the amazon ha a length of 6448 km. thi wa measur from a part of the river apurimac. until the 1970s, it wa thought that the marañón river wa the sourc of the amazon. in 2001, an expedit found that nevado mismi wa in fact the sourc of the amazon. anoth document of the geograph societi of lima give the length of the amazon at over 7.000 km.

the sourc of the amazon is in the and mountain of western south america. it flow east from there to the atlant ocean. most of the huge river and it mani tributari ar in the countri of brazil. there ar mani place on the amazon where a person on on side of the river cannot see the other side. the brazilian call the amazon the "river sea." the amazon is navig from the ocean to peru. ocean ship can travel on the amazon all the wai across brazil, and most of south america, to the citi of iquito in peru.

the estuari of the amazon is about 330 k wide. the width of the mouth of the river is usual measur from cabo do nort to punto patijoca. gener, the outlet of the para river is includ. it is 60 k wide, and form the estuari of the tocantin . the estuari also includ the island of marajó, which li in the mouth of the amazon. thi mean that the amazon is wider at it mouth than the entir length of the thame in england.

along the coastlin, near cabo do nort, there ar mani island partial cover with water. there ar also sandbank. the tide of the atlant gener a wave that reach into the amazon river. thi wave goe along the coast for about 160 k. the phenomenon of thi wave gener by the tide is call tidal bore. local it is known as pororoca. the pororoca occur where the water is less than 7 m deep. it start with a loud nois, and advanc at a speed of  . the bore is the reason the amazon doe not have a delta. the ocean rapidli carri awai the larg amount of silt brought by the amazon. thi make it imposs for a delta to grow past the shorelin. it also ha a veri larg tide, that can reach 6 m. the place ha becom popular for river surf.

a phenomenon that is veri similar occur at the mouth of the orinoco.

no bridg have been built over the amazon. thi is not becaus the river would be too wide to bridg. for most of it length, engin could build a bridg across the river easili. for most of it cours, the river flow through tropic rainforest, there ar veri few road and citi. most of the time, the cross can be done by a ferri, there is no need to build a bridg. 

the river and it tributari for the most part, flow through the rainforest. most citi lie on the bank of the river. the river is the main rout of traffic in the region. the biggest citi on the river is manau, which is also the capit of the brazillian state of amazona. mani nativ peopl live in the amazon, such as the urarina who live in peru.

 big ocean ship can get up the river until manau's, which is almost 1500 kilomet from it mouth. smaller ocean ship of 3,000 ton and 7.9 m draft can reach as far as iquito in peru, 3,700 km from the sea. smaller riverboat can reach 780 km higher as far as actual point. beyond that, small boat frequent go up to the pogo od escherichia's, just abov actual point.

<titl>abu bakr</titl>
abū bakr wa the first muslim ruler after the prophet muhammad . while sunni regard him as hi right successor , chosen by the peopl. the shi'a islam insist that he violat muhammad's direct order and made a coup d'état. intern list have him as the first muslim caliph. 

<titl>book of amo</titl>
the book of amo is on of the book of the nevi'im and of the christian old testament. amo is on of the minor prophet.

<titl>anaxagora</titl>
anaxagora wa a pre-socrat greek philosoph famou for introduc the cosmolog concept of nou , the order forc.

<titl>anaximen of miletu</titl>
anaximen of miletu wa a greek pre-socrat philosoph from the latter half of the 6th centuri, probabl a younger contemporari of anaximand, whose pupil or friend he is said to have been. 

<titl>apollo 13</titl>
apollo 13 wa the third man lunar-lander mission. it wa part of nasa's project apollo in the unit state. two dai after launch, a faulti oxygen tank explod, and the servic modul becam damag, caus a loss of oxygen and electr power. despit the hardship, the crew made it back to earth. a movi call apollo 13 wa made in 1995 star tom hank.

<titl>arthriti</titl>
arthriti is a group of diseas that involv damag bodi joint. 

 the most common of these diseas is osteoarthr. osteoarthr is caus by cartilag between the bone wear down so that the bone rub against caus sever pain in the affect area. other form of arthriti includ rheumatoid arthriti , psoriat arthriti, and septic arthriti .

<titl>acetylen</titl>
acetylen is a hydrocarbon, belong to the alkyn group. it is the simplest type of alkyn, as it ha onli two hydrogen atom and two carbon atom. acetylen is an unsatur organ compound becaus it four atom ar tripl bond through a coval bond. it wa discov in 1836 by edmund davi. the chemic symbol is c2h2.

80% of all acetylen produc yearli in the unit state is us for chemic synthesi. it is a toxic chemic; breath the substanc caus dizzi, headach and nausea.

<titl>alexand selkirk</titl>
alexand selkirk, also known as alexand selcraig wa a scottish sailor. he wa born in 1676, and di on the 13th decemb 1721. he becam famou becaus he spent four year on an uninhabit island. hi stori probabl inspir daniel defo to write the book robinson cruso. 

<titl>acr</titl>
an acr is an english unit of area, which is also us in the unit state and some commonwealth countri. it is most often us to describ area of land.

origin, it wa seen as the area of land a farmer could plough with an ox in a dai. sinc thi definit depend on the farmer and the ox, it look variabl. therefor, edward i, edward iii, henri viii and georg iv pass law fix it size. the commonwealth countri, includ the unit state then also introduc these law. 

<titl>adenosin triphosph</titl>
adenosin triphosph is the univers energi currenc for all live thing. everi cell in the world us atp for energi. it consist of a base and three phosphat group. it can be made mani differ wai, but mainli it is made by cellular respir.

atp is form in photosynthesis plant. atp is made dure a stage of photosynthesi. when an excit electron activ a gate that allow proton into the cell, the proton can not get out. as the concentr increas, the intern pressur increas as well. soon, a small gate open, allow proton through. upon their exit, the proton start a reaction between an adp molecul and a phosphat. the two ar join togeth and form atp. in anim, atp is made dure cellular respir: it make 2 atp molecul in glycolysi, and 36 in the electron transport chain. therefor, cellular respir creat a total of 38 atp in on cycl.

 the atp molecul is veri versatil, mean that it can be us for mani thing. energi is store in it chemic bond. 

when adp bind with anoth phosphat, energi is store that can be us later. in other word, when a bond is made, energi is store. thi is an endotherm reaction.

when atp break a bond with a phosphat group and becom adp, energi is releas. in other word, when a bond is broken energi is releas. thi is an exotherm reaction. the atp phosphat exchang is a nearli never-end cycl, stop onli when the cell di. 

atp give energi to most of the cell's function. for exampl the sodium-potassium pump in the cell membran requir atp to break into adp and the loos phosphat must bind to the pump. all activ transport requir atp in some form.

<titl>arnold schwarzenegg</titl>
arnold schwarzenegg is an actor and current the governor of the american state of california. he live in the lo angel, california area, but work in sacramento, the capit of california.

schwarzenegg went to the unit state in 1968 and later becam an actor. he ha act in mani movi, includ the the termin seri. in 2003, when grai davi wa recal , schwarzenegg won hi seat for governor of california. 

schwarzenegg is marri to maria shriver. thei have four children: two son and two daughter. the youngest born in 1997, the oldest in 1989.

befor he wa an actor, he wa a bodybuild and won the mister univers titl seven time.

<titl>adam smith</titl>
adam smith wa a scottish economist, who is regard as the father of modern econom. hi book, an inquiri into the natur and caus of the wealth of nation, publish in 1776, wa veri import. peopl call the book just the wealth of nation. it state some of the idea on which modern econom is base. in the wealth of nation adam smith ask 'what can a person do that is best for hi countri?' he decid that if everi person doe what is best for himself and hi littl circl of famili and friend, then the countri will do better. thi is becaus everi person know a lot about hi own situat , much more than the govern know. thi sort of think is call "liber theori", a main part of liber.

he wa also a philosoph who want to know why peopl thought that some thing ar good and other bad. he wrote an earlier book, in 1759, call the theori of moral sentiment. he thought that sympathi wa veri import in ethic. sympathi is when you see how someon els is feel, imagin what it feel like, and then end up feel the same wai: for smith, sympathi is like "put yourself in someon els's shoe". for exampl, sympathi make us feel happi to see someon els who is happi, or feel sorri for someon who is sad. sympathi mai even make us feel pain when we see someon in pain . both smith and hi friend david hume, who wa anoth scottish philosoph, wrote about the import of sympathi in ethic. 

<titl>antoin lavoisi</titl>
antoin lavoisi wa a french nobleman, chemist and biologist. he is often call the "father of modern chemistri". 

he wa the first scientist to recognis and name the element hydrogen and oxygen and wa an import figur in the start of atom theori. he wa execut, along with hundr of other nobl, dure the french revolut. 

<titl>allegori</titl>
an allegori is a stori which ha a hidden mean. the charact in allegor stori ar symbol which repres particular idea. the stori ha a figur mean, not just a on. 

allegori is an exampl of rhetor, but an allegori doe not have to be a stori in languag. it mai be someth to look at, such as a paint or sculptur.

an allegori is like a long metaphor. peopl have to us their imagin to understand what it is try to sai. a fabl or parabl is a short allegori with on basic idea . 

sometim peopl sai that stori have mean which the author, in fact, did not intend. for instanc, mani peopl have suggest that the lord of the ring wa an allegori for the world war, but, in fact, it wa written well befor the outbreak of world war ii, and j.r.r. tolkien said that it wa not an allegori. in thi wai peopl sometim chang the author’s idea. sometim thei do it for their own polit reason.

 allegori ha been a favourit form in the literatur of nearli everi nation. it is often us as a wai of critic thing or peopl where it would not be possibl to do so directli.

in classic literatur plato and ovid wrote allegori. dant alighieri wrote allegori in the divin comedi. in the middl ag everyman wa a moral plai. john bunyan’s the pilgrim's progress tell the stori of a man try to lead a christian life. jonathan swift wrote gulliv's travel, which tell about the strang custom of farawai countri, but he wa realli critic thing about hi own countri, the unit kingdom. anim farm by georg orwel is anoth exampl of an allegori, thi time of the soviet union dure josef stalin's era and the russian revolut. some of the charact can be directli link to figur dure that time. 

song mai also includ allegori. "waist deep in the big muddi" tell a stori of american soldier in the 1800s, order by their command to march into the mississippi river, which thei could never cross on foot. in truth, it told the stori of soldier fight in the vietnam war in the 1960s, and be expect to do the white gui bid.

allegori still continu to be popular todai. pictur, film and plai can be allegori. william gold’s novel lord of the fli also ha allegor mean. star trek us a great deal of allegori, to look at social condit and moral valu in the present, while tell stori base in the futur. alien race were often a reflect of earth's own race and countri.

allegor artwork includ sandro botticelli's la primavera and jan vermeer's the allegori of paint.

<titl>archimed</titl>
archimed wa a greek scientist. he wa an inventor, an astronom, and a mathematician. he wa born in the town of syracus in sicili in what is now itali. he wa veri famou dure hi life and he mai be on of the most clever peopl who have ever live. he is now said to be on of the most import scientist and the greatest mathematician of the ancient world. 

hi father wa phidia, an astronom, and he mai have been in the famili of a king of syracus. syracus wa a rich greek citi, on the sea shore in sicili. when archimed wa about ten year old, he left syracus to studi in alexandria, in egypt in the school of euclid, who wa a famou mathematician. not much is known about the person life of archimed, for exampl, whether he wa marri or if he had children.

 there ar mani stori told about archimed. some of them mai be true, but mani of them mai be untru, or onli partli true. 

the best known sai of archimed wa that if he wa given a long enough lever and a place to stand, he could move the world. thi is meant to show the power of the lever. the lever is perhap the simplest machin and can help a person to do more work than thei would otherwis be abl to do. archimed wa not the first person to us a lever, but he did write about how it work and what could be done to make it work better.

anoth archimed stori is that king hiero ii thought hi crown wa not pure gold. archimed prove that the crown wa made from gold mix with silver. the valu of gold wa more than that of silver, so the king wa deceiv. archimed wa in a bath and thought about what happen when an item is put into water. he found out that differ thing with the same weight move out differ amount of water. thi is call water displac and the differ metal have differ densiti. when he had thi idea, he jump out of the bath and ran with no cloth on through the street of the town, shout "eureka!" - which mean "i have found it"

 archimed is also well known for be the first person to understand static, which is a part of the studi of physic and is to do with load that do not move, for exampl in build or bridg. he also understood and wrote about what happen when thing float in liquid which is call buoyanc. he discov, that is found out, how mani thing work and wrote down the new rule and law that he found. 

 archimed is also famou as an inventor becaus he made new tool and machin. for exampl, he made a machin to lift water that could be us by farmer to bring water to their crop. thi is still call the archimed screw. 

archimed probabl also invent a machin to measur distanc, an odomet. a cart wa built with wheel that turn four hundr time in on mile. a pin on the wheel would hit a 400-tooth gear, so it turn onc for everi mile. thi gear would then make a small stone fall into a cup. at the end of a journei on could count the number of stone in the cup to find the distanc.

archimed also made a machin by which on person could pull a larg ship with just on rope. thi wa the compound pullei. thi is an import machin even todai, as it help peopl in everydai life, although the version we now us ar much more complic. thei still have the same integr structur, though.

 he also invent or made mani machin us in war, for exampl he made better catapult. thi wa dure the punic war, which were between rome in what is now itali and the citi of carthag in what is now north africa. for mani year he help stop the roman armi from attack syracus, hi citi. on war machin wa call the "claw of archimed", or the "iron hand". it wa us to defend the citi from attack by ship. ancient writer said that it wa a kind of crane with a hook that lift ship out of the water and caus their destruct. 

anoth stori about archimed is that he burn roman ship from far awai us mani mirror and the light from the sun. thi is perhap possibl, but it is perhap more like that thi wa done with flame missil from a catapult.

after mani year the roman armi took the citi of syracus. on of the soldier kill archimed, who wa then an old man. the soldier had perhap been told to catch archimed aliv, so it mai have been a mistak. the stori is that archimed wa kill while draw a mathemat diagram in the sand. he wa so busi with hi draw that he did not see the soldier behind him. hi famou last word were, “don’t disturb my circl!”

<titl>altern medicin</titl>
altern medicin describ practic us in place of convent medic treatment. 

it can also describ practic us along with convent medicin.

altern medicin includ practic that incorpor spiritu, metaphys, or religi belief; non-evid base practic, non-european medic tradit, or newli develop approach to heal.hreo

<titl>approv vote</titl>
approv vote is a vote system us for elect. in approv vote, each person can vote for ani number of candid he like. the vote for each of the candid ar count, and sum up. the candid or candid with most vote ar chosen as the winner of the elect.

propon argu it is better than plural vote becaus voter can not onli vote for the lessor of evil advertis by the media, but also vote for their favorit candid. if their goal is just to vote against a candid, thei can do so more forcefulli by approv all other candid. ballot can easili be hand count, in case voter do not trust comput, which would be need for instant runoff vote. vote spoil is not an issu with approv vote, so mani candid mai run for offic.

oppon argu that voter still have some of the problem of plural vote, which is that thei don't know if thei will need to compromis vote or not. give approv to a compromis candid could result in that compromis candid win, when their favorit would have won had thei not given approv to the compromis candid. it is possibl for 51% of voter to view a candid as their first choic, yet that candid lose to a compromis candid becaus mani of those voter approv the compromis candid as well. not know whether or not to compromis is a problem with all vote system when at least 3 strong candid run.

<titl>astoria, oregon</titl>
astoria is a citi in the american state of oregon . it is name after john jacob astor, who start a fur trade post, there in 1811. mani movi have been film there like the gooni, kindergarten cop, and free willi.

<titl>ascii art</titl>
ascii art is art made out of ascii charact. thi can be simpl art like "<3" , or it can be more complex, with charact carefulli place out, contain mani line of charact. ascii art wa origin us to "draw" pictur on comput that onli allow ascii charact. smili ar consid ascii art. 

<titl>american english</titl>
american english or u.s. english is the dialect of english languag spoken in the unit state. it is differ in some wai from other variat of english, such as british english. histor, mani type of american english can be found in old local dialect of england.

mani peopl todai know about american english even if thei live in a countri where anoth form of english is spoken. thi is partli becaus peopl hear and read american english via the media, for exampl cnn televis, and the internet, where the most common form of english is american english.

becaus peopl all over the world hear and read american english as well as other version of english we mai find that the english languag start to take on new word. english ha been chang for centuri, ad new word to it vocabulari. for exampl, the english languag spoken in india, which ha more than on billion peopl, will add more american english word to go along with it british english base and mani other word adopt into english usag in india from from ani of the 200+ indian languag.

sometim peopl will learn american english as it is spoken in america - for exampl, in telephon call center in india and other place, peopl often learn american english in order to sound more like their custom who call india from america. these peopl often continu to us american english in everydai life.

mani word definit ar differ in american english. most chang in a languag start with small thing like thi - for instanc italian, spanish, french all came from latin due to mani small chang in us over centuri.

 there ar mani word that sound the same between the american english and british english, but ar spell differ. for exampl:

there ar also some word in american english that ar a bit differ from british english, e.g.:

there ar exampl of ambigu such as the word "ass" stem from a mi-pronunci of the british-english cruditi "ars" which make certain biblic passag risibl.

<titl>albert spald</titl>
albert goodwil spald wa a profession basebal player, manag and co-founder of a.g. spald sport good compani.

<titl>australian english</titl>
australian english is the kind of english languag us in australia.

 peopl from britain and ireland first came to live in australia in 1788. thei brought mani differ kind of english with them. these differ kind of english began to mix and chang. the new comer soon began to speak with their own distinct accent and vocabulari. 

more and more peopl came to australia in the 19th and 20th centuri. mani peopl came look for gold. some came from britain and ireland. other came from non-english speak countri. australian english continu to grow and chang.

australian english ha also been influenc by american english. dure the second world war there were mani american soldier stai in australia. american televis show and music have been popular in australia sinc the 1950s.

 the australian and new zealand accent ar veri similar. the australian accent is also similar to accent from the south-east of britain.

in australian english the /r/ sound can onli occur befor a vowel. mani word which sound differ in other accent sound the same in australian english. some exampl ar:

some australian english vowel sound differ to vowel of other kind of english. for exampl, the vowel in dai start with a veri open mouth. thi make the australian dai sound close to the die of most british or american peopl.

australian english ha some vowel not us in some other kind of english. for exampl, the word bad and lad do not rhyme becaus bad ha a long vowel and lad ha a short on. also, cot doe not sound like caught and bother doe not rhyme with father.

as with american english the /t/ sound can sometim sound like a /d/ sound. thi usual happen between vowel. so, for exampl, 

also in the australian accent a /t/ sound plu the sound of you come out sound like chew and a /d/ sound plu the sound of you come out sound like jew. here ar some exampl of thing which sound the same.

australian pronounc wh and w the same. some exampl ar:

 australian us mani word that other english speaker do not us. the famou australian greet, for exampl, is g'dai!. a nativ forest is call the bush and central australia is call the outback.

mani word were brought to australia from britain and ireland. for exampl, mate mean "friend" which is still us in britain. some of these word have chang in mean. 

a few word have come from australian aborigin languag. these ar mainli name for anim, plant and place. some exampl ar dingo and kangaroo.

sometim we do not know where a word came from. for exampl, dinkum or fair dinkum mean "true", "is that true?", "thi is the truth". but nobodi know where the word is from: some sai the word come from chines, other sai the word come from england.

 australian spell is gener veri similar to british spell. in word like organis, realis, both -is and -iz ar accept, as in british english, but, -is is prefer. in word like colour, favourit, -our is usual, but sometim it is spell with -or. program and jail, on the other hand, ar more common than programm and gaol.

 most linguist split australian english up into three main kind. these ar broad, gener, and cultiv australian english. 

broad australian english sound veri strongli australian, when compar to other kind of english. dame edna everag speak broad australian english.

gener australian english is the middl ground. it is us by most australian, and can be heard in australian-made film and televis program. russel crow and nicol kidman speak gener australian english. 

cultiv australian english is close to british english. judi davi and geoffrei rush speak cultiv australian english.

the australian accent doe not chang much across the countri. howev, some small differ includ how the letter 'a' sound like in the word castl, danc, chanc, advanc, etc. some us the vowel in calm other us the vowel in mat or mad. anoth region differ is the pronunci of 'e' sound especi follow by 'l', such as melbourn, help, cellist, with victorian pronounc thi 'e' like the 'a' sound in alchemi or chalic. 

howev, there ar differ in the word australian us in differ part of the countri. for exampl, footi mean "footbal" in nsw and queensland, but "australian rule footbal" in victoria. in nsw, a swim costum is call a cossi or swimmer, in queensland it is call tog, but it's call bather in most other state.

<titl>american airlin flight 77</titl>
american airlin flight 77 wa an airplan that wa hijack by terrorist and wa crash into the pentagon. the crash wa a part of the septemb 11, 2001 attack on the unit state of america. 58 peopl and 6 crew member di in the crash. the plane wa a boe 757, and the time of the crash wa 9:37 am eastern daylight time.

some think that a boe 757 did not crash into the pentagon, becaus the hole in the build from the crash wa onli 75 feet wide, while the wingspan of a boe 757 is 124 feet.

<titl>ambush</titl>
an ambush is a tactic which involv a small group of soldier hide and suddenli attack anoth group of soldier.

<titl>adapt radiat</titl>
adapt radiat is rapid evolutionari radiat. it is an increas in the number and divers of speci within each lineag. some definit phrase it in term of a singl clade: "adapt radiat is the rapid prolifer of new taxa from a singl ancestr group". howev, in the most strike case, such as occur in the triassic after the greatest extinct event in earth histori, mani line underw rapid radiat simultan. thi must have someth to do with the avail of ecolog nich and rel absenc of competit. the ediacaran biota were the result of an earli metazoan radiat. the greatest radiat of all took place earli in the cambrian period, when most of our anim phyla evolv: see list of anim phyla. 

in the rel absenc of competit, group diversifi to fill avail habitat and nich. thi is an evolutionari process driven by natur select. 

the term wa introduc and discuss by georg gaylord simpson, the palaeontologist who contribut to the modern evolutionari synthesi. other prefer not to us the term. robert l carrol prefer to us the term major evolutionari transit, though it turn out that all or most of these could also be describ as adapt radiat. other us term like macroevolut, or even megaevolut, as if the process ar differ from those which occur below speci level. it is part of evolutionari theori that all process take place at the level of popul. all agre, though, that the speed of evolut doe chang, howev it is measur.

 record of time ar bedevil by gap in the fossil record, often at those crucial earli stage when number ar low and geograph distribut is sever restrict. "in realiti, there ar long period within nearli everi lineag for which the fossil record remain unknown".p297 these gap affect our knowledg of time, and of morpholog chang.

nevertheless, when a string of distinctli new lineag appear within a short interv, it seem reason to conclud that the rate of chang ha been surprisingli fast. an exampl would be the appear of new reptilian group in the triassic. us the term 'reptil' broadli, the group includ dinosaur , pterosaur , ichthyosaur , turtl , crurotarsi , phytosaur . these radiat occur after the great mass extinct at the end of the palaeozo era, and the triassic itself had sever lesser extinct. unfortun, the triassic ha the poorest fossil record of the whole of the mesozo era.

 the evolut of a novel featur mai permit a group to diversifi by make new wai of live possibl. a most strike exampl is the cleidoic egg, develop in earli amniot, which permit vertebr to invad the land. the cleidoic egg must have been develop in the latest devonian or earli carbonifer. amphibian, who branch off befor thi event, still lai their egg in water, and so ar limit in the extent to which thei can exploit land environ. 

an exampl of a more modest innov is the evolut of a fourth cusp in the mammalian tooth. thi trait permit a vast increas in the rang of foodstuff which can be fed on. evolut of thi charact ha thu increas the number of ecolog nich avail to mammal. the trait aros a number of time in differ group dure the cenozo, and in each instanc wa immedi follow by an adapt radiat. bird find other wai to provid for each other, ie. the evolut of flight open new possibl, and an adapt radiat occur.

 adapt radiat often occur as a result of an organ enter an environ with unoccupi nich, such as a newli form lake or isol island chain. the colon popul mai diversifi rapidli to take advantag of all possibl nich.

in lake victoria, an isol lake which form recent in the african rift vallei, over 300 speci of cichlid fish adapt radiat from on parent speci in just 15,000 year. 

 in about 6500 s, the hawaiian island have the most divers collect of drosophilid fli in the world, live from rainforest to mountain meadow. about 800 hawaiian drosophilid speci ar known.

studi show a clear "flow" of speci from older to newer island. there ar also case of colon back to older island, and skip of island, but these ar much less frequent. by potassium/argon radioact date, the present island date from 0.4 million year ago to 10mya . the oldest member of the hawaiian archipelago still abov the sea is kure atol, which can be date to 30 mya. the archipelago itself, produc by the pacif plate move over a hot spot, ha exist for far longer, at least into the cretac. previou island now beneath the sea form the hawaiian-emperor seamount chain.

all of the nativ drosophilid speci in hawai i have appar descend from a singl ancestr speci that colon the island, about 20 million year ago. the subsequ adapt radiat wa spur by a lack of competit and a wide varieti of vacant nich. although it would be possibl for a singl pregnant femal to colonis an island, it is more like to have been a group from the same speci.

there ar other anim and plant on the hawaiian archipelago which have undergon similar, if less spectacular, adapt radiat.

 adapt radiat commonli follow mass extinct: follow an extinct, mani nich ar left vacant. a classic exampl of thi is the replac of the non-avian dinosaur at the end of the cretac with mammal in the palaeocen.

<titl>allel</titl>
an allel is a form of a gene at a particular posit on a chromosom.

typic plant and anim have two set of chromosom: on set inherit from each parent, and ar describ as diploid. so thei have two allel at each gene locu. if the two allel at the same gene locu ar ident, the individu is call a homozygot and is said to be homozyg: if instead the two allel ar differ, the individu is a heterozygot and is heterozyg. 

in the simplest case, the effect of on allel complet ‘mask’ the other in heterozyg combin: that is, the phenotyp produc by the two allel in heterozyg combin is ident with that produc by on of the two homozyg genotyp. the allel that mask the other is said to be domin to the latter, and the altern allel is said to be recess to the former. thi phenomenon is call domin, an idea which origin in the work of gregor mendel, the founder of genet.

the inherit of allel, and their domin, can be repres in a punnett squar.

 an exampl is the gene for blossom colour in mani speci of flower. a singl gene control the colour of the petal, but there mai be sever differ version of the gene.

in thi exampl, parent have the genotyp bb . if b is found in their genotyp, the flower will be red. therefor, the onli time a flower is not red is when the genotyp is bb .

the probabl of the flower have differ genotyp ar: bb is 25%, bb is 50%, and bb is 25%. the phenotyp of the flower will alwai be red if a domin b is in the genotyp. therefor, there is a 25% chanc of get a flower which is not red, and 75% chanc of get a flower which is red.

<titl>antigen</titl>
when an antigen is introduc into the bodi it caus the product of antibodi. antigen can includ bacteria, cell of transplant organ, and toxin. strictli speak, an antigen is ani substanc that can stimul the product of antibodi and combin specif with them. for exampl, antigen a stimul product anti-b antibodi, and antigen b stimul product of anti-a antibodi. it is import to note that antigen stimul product of antibodi and do not directli produc produc them. antibodi ar what determin whether or not a blood transfus recipi will have an advers reaction to the donor's blood. a person with blood type b for exampl, will have anti-a antibodi and as a result, could onli safe accept blood from a donor with blood type b or blood type o . 

<titl>al-qaeda</titl>
al-qaeda is a worldwid milit islam terrorist organ. peopl think it is led by osama bin laden. the organis want to make new govern us it idea about islam. member of al qaeda believ their idea of radic islamic do not go togeth with democraci. thei want to fight western and liber govern, most of all the unit state. 

member of the organis have perform mani act of terror. these act were usual direct against the unit state, and other liber countri. the most well-known attack includ the septemb 11, 2001 attack, the bomb of us embassi in kenya and tanzania in 1998, and the attack on the us navi ship uss cole in 2000. 

<titl>alessandro volta</titl>
count alessandro giusepp antonio anastasio volta wa a lombard physicist known especi for the develop of the first electr cell in 1800. he wa born in como in lombardi, itali.

volta work on the electrophoru that make a static electr charg in 1775. volta also studi what we now call capacit, develop separ mean to studi both electr potenti v and charg q, and discov that for a given object thei ar proport. thi mai be call volta's law of capacit, and like for thi work the unit of electr potenti ha been name the volt. around 1791 he began to studi "anim electr". in thi wai he discov volta's law of the electrochem seri, and the law that the electromot forc of a galvan cell. in 1800, he invent the voltaic pile, an earli electr batteri, which made a steadi electr current. it is credit as the first electrochem cell.  in honor of hi work in the field of electr, napoleon made him a count in 1810. a museum in como, the voltian templ, ha been built in hi honor and exhibit some of the origin equip he us to conduct experi. in 1881, an import electr unit, the volt, wa name in hi honor. there have also been innov and discoveri name after alessandro volta includ the toyota alessandro volta, and the volta crater on the moon.

volta marri the daughter of count ludovico peregrini, teresa, with whom he rais three son. in 1779 he becam professor of experiment physic at the univers of pavia, a chair he occupi for almost 25 year. volta is buri in the citi of como. at the tempio voltiano near lake como there is a museum devot to explain hi work.

<titl>antlia</titl>
antlia is a constel, or group of star in the sky that form a pictur. it look like an air or vacuum pump. it star ar so faint that befor astronom had power electron telescop, nobodi had given it a name. peopl who live in the northern part of the world can see it in latitud to 66 degre north and peopl who live in the southern part of the world can see it 50 degre south from januari through march.

<titl>arkansa</titl>
arkansa, sometim call the land of opportun or the natur state, is on of the unit state. it capit and largest citi is littl rock. it ha been estim that around 3 million peopl live in arkansa todai.

 arkansa becam the 25th state to enter the union in 1836. dure the american civil war, arkansa wa on of the confeder state, howev, it wa the second state to be put back in to the u.s. in the reconstruct.

 arkansa is notabl for it bauxit mine. arkansa wa also the first u.s. state where diamond were found. notabl arkansan includ bill clinton, who wa governor of arkansa befor he becam the presid of the unit state, and sam walton, the founder of wal-mart.

<titl>alexand fleme</titl>
sir alexand fleme wa a scottish biologist and pharmacologist. hi father hugh, di at 59 when alexand wa onli seven. he is best known for discov the antibiot substanc penicillin in 1928. he share a nobel prize in physiolog or medicin in 1945 for thi discoveri with howard walter florei and ernst bori chain. hi accident find of penicillin in the year 1928 mark the start of todai's antibiot.

<titl>andrew carnegi</titl>
andrew carnegi wa a scottish businessman. he ran u.s. steel, a major steel make corpor.

<titl>astronom royal</titl>
astronom royal is a senior post in the royal household of the sovereign of the unit kingdom. there ar two offic, the senior be the astronom royal date from june 22, 1675, and the second the astronom royal for scotland, which date from 1834.

king charl ii, who found the royal observatori greenwich in 1675 instruct the first astronom royal john flamste, "to appli himself with the most exact care and dilig to the rectifi of the tabl of the motion of the heaven, and the place of the fix star, so as to find out the so much desir longitud of place for the perfect of the art of navig."

from that time until 1972 the astronom royal wa director of the royal observatori greenwich. as astronom royal he receiv a stipend of £100 a year and is a member of the royal household, under the gener author of the lord chamberlain. after the separ of the two offic the posit of astronom royal ha been larg honorari, though he remain avail to advis the sovereign on astronom and relat scientif matter, and the offic is of great prestig.

<titl>airlin</titl>
an airlin is a compani that transport peopl and item us airplan. an airlin mai have as few as on airplan or a fleet of hundr of airplan.

most airlin offer regular flight between a group of airport.

<titl>australian capit territori</titl>
the australian capit territori or act is a small territori in australia. it wa creat as the home for the australian capit citi, canberra, becaus of fight between new south wale and victoria over where the capit citi should be. the jervi bai territori wa creat at the same time so that the act would have a harbour without reli on on of the state.

<titl>adob system</titl>
adob is an american softwar compani. usual all of the program thei make ar for creativ us, such as adob flash, adob dreamweav and adob photoshop. all adob product on their websit ar allow to be download, but for a limit time onli.

<titl>appar magnitud</titl>
the appar magnitud of a celesti bodi is a measur of it bright as seen by a person on earth, normal to the valu it would have in the absenc of the atmospher. the brighter the object appear, the lower the numer valu of it magnitud.

<titl>absolut magnitud</titl>
in astronomi, absolut magnitud is the appar magnitud, m, an object would have if it were at a standard luminos distanc awai from us, in the absenc of interstellar extinct. it allow the overal bright of object to be compar without regard to distanc.

<titl>apollo 14</titl>
apollo 14 wa the eighth man mission in the apollo program. it wa the third mission to land on the moon. the nine-dai mission left the earth on januari 31, 1971, and land on the moon on februari 5. the lunar modul land in the fra mauro format; thi had been the target of the ill-fate apollo 13 mission. dure the two walk on the moon's surfac, 93.2 l of moon rock wa collect. sever experi, includ seismic studi, were carri out. command alan shepard famous hit two golf ball on the lunar surfac with a make-shift club he had brought from earth. command modul pilot stuart roosa took sever hundr seed on the mission, mani of which were plant on return, result in the so call moon tree. the pilot of the lunar modul wa edgar mitchel, phd. in june 2009, the nasa lunar reconnaiss orbit wa abl to photograph the apollo 14 land site. the base of the lunar modul and the astronaut footprint on the moon's sufac could be clearli seen.

<titl>apollo 17</titl>
apollo 17 is the last man spacecraft on the moon. eugen cernan wa the last person on the moon. hi lunar modul pilot wa jack schmitt, phd

<titl>alpha centauri</titl>
alpha centauri is the brightest star system in the southern centauru constel. it is the fourth brightest star in the night sky, with a magnitud of -0.01. it is visibl in the southern hemispher, and is too far south for most of the northern hemispher to see.

it is the closest star system to our own, be 4.2-4.4 light year awai. 

to the nake ey, the two brightest part of the system ar too close for the ey to be abl to see them as separ star.

it proper name is rigil kentauru , which come from the arab phrase al rijl al kentauru, mean "foot of the centaur", but is usual refer to by it bayer name alpha centauri. anoth name is toliman. it is also sometim known as bungula, possibl from the latin word ungula mean "hoof". it and beta centauri ar the "pointer" to the southern cross.

alpha centauri a is also known as hd 128620, hr 5459, cp-60°5483, gctp 3309.00a, and lh 50. alpha centauri b is also known as hd 128621, hr 5460, gctp 3309.00b, and lh 51.

alpha centauri is a tripl star system. it consist of two main star, alpha centauri a and alpha centauri b at a distanc of 4.36 ly, and a dimmer red dwarf name proxima centauri at a distanc of 4.22 ly. both of the two main star ar rather similar to the sun. the larger star, alpha centauri a, is the most similar to the sun, but a littl larger and brighter.

<titl>abel tasman</titl>
abel janszoon tasman wa a dutch sea explor. he discov tasmania and new zealand while on voyag in 1642 and 1644, in the servic of the voc . he also discov larg part of australia. 

he wa born in groningen, holland. he went to batavia to work for the voc in 1633. he went back to holland in 1636. he went back to batavia with hi wife, janneti tjaerss, 2 year later. he went north to japan in 1640. in 1642 tasman went south to palembang..

 tasman set sail from batavia with the ship heemskerck and zeehaen on august 14, 1642. he wa told to search for new holland. he wa hope to find gold, silver and other rich. on novemb 24, 1642 he discov the west coast of tasmania which he call van diemen's land. he name it after anthoni van diemen, governor gener of the dutch east indi. tasman sail around to the east coast of van diemen's land and claim the land for the dutch on decemb 3, 1642. the ship then sail west and discov new zealand. hi ship were attack by maori in larg war cano and 4 sailor di. tasman then sail north-east to tonga and fiji. he then sail north west to new guinea and got back to batavia in june 1643.

 in 1644 tasman sail from batavia with the ship limmen, zeemeeuw and bracq. he sail along the west coast of new guinea, and then the coast of australia from cape york to north west cape. he went back to batavia in august 1644. he show that western australia and queensland were part of the same countri. he wa not abl to get through torr strait, but hi map were us for the next 200 year.

tasman made more trip includ to sumatra in 1646, siam in 1647, and manila in 1648. he purchas a lot of land in batavia where he di in octob 1659.

sever place have been name after him, includ tasmania, the tasman peninsula, tasman island and the tasman sea.

<titl>austin, texa</titl>
austin is the capit citi of the u.s. state of texa. the univers of texa at austin is locat there.

austin wa first call waterloo in 1835. in 1839 it wa chosen to be the capit citi of the republ of texa and name for stephen f. austin. the univers of texa at austin wa found in 1883.

 the mayor of austin is lee leffingwel.

austin also ha a citi council with seven member.

mani busi have their main offic in or near austin, includ amd, dell, freescal semiconductor and whole food.

 formula on ha made an agreement with the citi of austin to host the formula 1 unit state grand prix. the first race will be in 2010. a new racetrack will be built to host the race. the last unit state grand prix wa in 2007 at the indianapoli motor speedwai.

herrman tilk will design the austin f1 track. he ha been ask to design a track like the classic racetrack of silverston, hockenheim and spa. the track will be over 3-mile in length.

<titl>auschwitz concentr camp</titl>
auschwitz concentr camp wa the largest concentr camp of nazi germani. it name come from the name of the town where it stood, oświęcim. auschwitz is the name of oświęcim in the german languag.

peopl also call these death camp by other name includ auschwitz, konzentrationslag auschwitz-birkenau, kl auschwitz, and the former nazi german concentr camp of auschwitz. begin in 1940, nazi germani built mani concentr camp there. in these death camp, nazi germani kill about 3.0-3.5 million peopl. 90% of them were jewish peopl.

schutzstaffel under the direct control of heinrich himmler oper these death camp. ss also oper mani such camp in nazi germani. until the summer of 1943, the command of auschwitz wa rudolf hoess. after him, arthur liebehenschel and richard baer becam command of the camp. after the second world war, hoess wrote hi autobiographi had given mani detail about these camp. after the second world war, he receiv the death penalti, and the author hang him in front of the crematorium of auschwitz i. johanna langefeld, maria mandel, and elisabeth volkenrath manag the women prison of auschwitz. 

about 700 prison tri to escap from differ auschwitz camp. onli 300 succeed. guard caught the famili of the prison who escap or tri to escap. thei kept them as prison. thei show the famili member to other prison to prevent ani escap attempt.

auschwitz wa a big complex of mani concentr camp. there were three main camp:

there were mani other sub-camp around these three main camp.

 auschwitz i serv as the offic for all camp at the place. the nazi germani had establish thi on 20th mai 1940. begin on 14th june 1940, the nazi germani start keep prison there. the first batch were of 728 prison from poland and then 48 homosexu person from germani. then jew arriv as prison. at ani time, there were between 13,000 and 16,000 prison. in 1942, the number increas to 20,000. howev, contrari to as shown in mani film, most of the jew prison were in auschwitz ii. still no on know exactli how mani peopl were sent to camp. 

the ss select some prison, gener of german nation, to work as guard. thei call these guard “kapo”. the prison’ cloth carri differ mark to distinguish differ type of prison. gener, the jew got the worst treatment. 

on sundai, the prison did not have to do work. on thi dai, thei did clean and wash. the live condit were veri bad and food suppli were wors. mani prison di regularli due to the bad condit. 

the ss built mani type of room to give differ type of punish to prison. thei construct room of 1.5 metr squar. thei kept four peopl in such a room stand all night, and forc them to work dure the dai. in some other room, the ss offic kept peopl and did not give them ani water or food. these peopl were left to die of hunger. in some room, there would be onli a small window. thei kept peopl there and thei di as the room’s air becam without oxygen. thei also hang peopl in a wai that their shoulder joint got broken. thei remain hang for hour and dai, suffer much pain and final di. the camp also had a place to kill peopl by fire gunshot at them. thei also hang some person and thei di a slow and pain death. 

on 3rd septemb 1941, the ss did the first test of poison ga on prison at thi camp. thei us hydrogen cyanid or zyklon b. in thi test, thei kill 600 prison of war of the soviet union and about 250 pole. when the ss found that the test wa a success, thei construct a ga chamber and a crematorium in block 11 of the camp. thei us thi from 1941 to 1942, and kill about 60,000 peopl by send them to the ga chamber. after thi, thei made thi as an air-raid shelter for the us of ss. the ga chamber still exist after reconstruct us the origin part. now, it is a part of the museum. 

on 26th march 1942, the first women prison arriv at auschwitz. a gynecologist dr. c. allan did mani type of experi on jewish women dure the period from april 1943 to mai 1944. she wa try to develop a simpl inject to make these women steril. anoth doctor name joseph mengel did experi on twin and dwarf. he did thing like castrat without us ani anesthet. all these experi were veri crude and pain. mani women and men di dure these experi. the doctor kill mani patient of the camp’s hospit by give them inject of phenol if the patient did not recov quickli.

at the order of heinrich himmler’s order, ss even establish a brothel in auschwitz in summer of 1943. the women work in the brothel were non-jewish prison. the brothel wa establish to reward prison of high valu to the nazi .

auschwitz ii wa anoth part of the complex. mani peopl know thi simpli by the name of "auschwitz". here nazi germani kill over on million peopl, mostli jew, pole and gypsi. 

the nazi began concentr birkenau in octob 1941. holocaust survivor' network had post a photograph of thi place. auschwitz ii had four ga chamber. these ga chamber look like shower. auschwitz ii also had four crematoria. in the ga chamber, peopl were kill by us ga and in the crematorium, thei burnt the bodi of the dead person. 

everydai nazi author brought mani prison by rail to auschwitz. the nazi separ these prison into three group. within hour thei sent about 66% of prison to ga chamber where thei di. thi 66% gener includ all children, all women, all elderli person, and other whom ss offic thought not fulli fit to do work. everydai ss kill in ga chamber about 20,000 person. thei us a cyanid ga to kill these person. the ss select some fit person for work as slave labor at compani like i. g. farben and krupp. record indic that between 1940 and 1945, about 405,000 person work as slave labor. out of them, about 340,000 di dure thi period. oskar schindler, a german industrialist save about 1,000 jew from poland. he sent them awai at hi factori, and these jew live. ss offici made a third group mostli of twin and dwarf. nazi doctor like josef mengel did experi on these person. 

the ss us some prison for differ work in the camp like kapo and sonderkommando . the kapo maintain disciplin. sonderkommando took the dead bodi from the ga chamber to the crematorium for burn the bodi. befor burn, thei even took out gold from the fill in dead person’ teeth, if ani. from time to time, ss also kill some of the kapo and sonderkommando. altogeth about 6,000 ss member work at auschwitz.

by 1943 mani resist group had come up insid the camp of auschwitz. these group help some prison to escap from auschwitz. these person brought the inform to the world about the kill take place insid the auschwitz. if on prison escap, the ss kill mani other prison, and sometim arrest the famili member of the escap prison and parad them in the camp. thi wa to stop other prison from attempt ani escap. 

on 27th januari 1945, the red armi of the soviet union reach the camp complex. all the ss guard and offic had fled. thei had forc march more than 58,000 prison on a death march to germani. the red armi found about 7,600 person in the camp. 

in 1947 poland found a museum at the site of the auschwitz camp. by 1994, about 22 million visitor came to the museum. 

in auschwitz iii and mani other sub-camp, the ss kept the prison who work as slave worker for factori of i. g. farben. doctor from auschwitz ii came to visit these camp from time to time. if thei found unfit and weak person, these person had to go to auschwitz ii. there the ss guard kill them in the ga chamber.

the alli receiv some inform about auschwitz camp dure 1941-1944. howev, the author did not believ the figur of kill. two person, name rudolf vrba and alfr wetzler escap from these camp. thei present their report, and alli leader learnt the truth about auschwitz in the middl of 1944.

dure 1944, airplan of the alli had taken some photograph of the area, which includ auschwitz camp. howev, no on analyz these photograph. onli in 1970s, the author look at these photograph carefulli. at on time, the alli had plan bomb the camp. but, thei drop the idea as thi might have endang the live of the prison. in fact some plane drop bomb at nearbi militari target. on bomb fell on the camp and kill some prison. the debat still continu about the step, which could have been taken to save the kill of the prison by the ss.

by late-1944, the red armi had come closer to the place. the ss personnel manag the camp blew up the ga chamber of birkenau to hide their crime of kill. on 17th januari 1945, nazi personnel start to vacat the camp. thei forc the prison held there to march toward west. thei left behind onli those who could not march. on 27th januari 1945, the troop of the 322nd infantri of the red armi reach the place. thei found and freed about 7,500 prison.

 littl is known about the number of peopl who di at auschwitz and other camp. it is thought to be a larg number. the nazi destroi most of the record. studi to arriv at the figur depend on the wit and person of nuremberg trial. in some case, survivor’ account help to fix some rough figur. 

the communist govern of the soviet union and the poland had report the number at 4 million. wit and the person face trial at nuremberg trial gave lower figur. nazi rudolf hoess said that between 2.5 and 3 million had been kill, while adolf eichmann gave a figur of 2 million. in 1983, french scholar georg weller wa on of the first to us nazi data on deport to estim the number kill at auschwitz. he calcul a figur of 1.613 million dead, includ 1.42 million jew and 146,000 pole. around the same time, franciszek piper us timet of train arriv and other record of send out of peopl by the nazi. he calcul 1.1 million jewish death and 140,000-150,000 polish victim, along with 23,000 roma . mani scholar think thi figur might be the right order of magnitud.

after few year of the second world war, the govern of poland decid to restor auschwitz i. thei repair some of the camp. sometim thei did veri minor chang from the origin set up – but thi thei indic by place suitabl notic. auschwitz ii and the remain of the ga chamber ar also part of the museum. the museum had mani section. on section ha veri larg number of shoe of men, women and children. anoth section ha suitcas, which the victim had brought. in fact, victim brought mani thing includ household utensil think that nazi were take them to anoth place for re-settlement. on displai case about 30 metr long displai human hair of the victim. befor kill the person, the ss remov the hair. thei open the museum in 1947 for the public. the museum wa to honor the victim of the nazism. the peopl later on scatter the ash of the victim between the hut. thei see the entir area as a gravesit. 

the unesco had declar the site as a world heritag site.

in 1979, polish pope john paul ii celebr mass on the ground of auschwitz ii. after the pope had announc beatif of edith stein, cathol erect a cross near bunker 2 of auschwitz ii where ss had gass edith stein. after some time, a star of david appear at the site. mani religi symbol appear. final peopl remov all of them. 

in 1984, carmelit open a convent near auschwitz i. when jewish group protest, thei remov the convent in 1987. in 1988, carmelit erect on 8 metr tall cross outsid the block 11. when the jewish group protest sai that most of the kill were jewish peopl, 300 smaller cross appear by 1998. final, peopl remov the smaller cross but the larger on continu to stand. 

on 27th januari 1945, the red armi of the soviet union had freed the auschwitz camp. in 1996, germani honor the victim of nazism on 27th januari. in 2005, the european parliament mark the anniversari of the camp's liber in 2005 with a minut of silenc. the european parliament also pass a resolut condemn the murder of about 1.5 million peopl at auschwitz camp. the resolut also told about “the disturb rise in anti-semit, and especi anti-semit incid, in europ, and for learn anew the wider lesson about the danger of victim peopl on the basi of race, ethnic origin, religion, social classif, polit or sexual orient."

the communist govern of the soviet union and poland had note on a memori plate out of the auschwitz camp. the plate show number of kill as 4 million. after the fall of the communist govern in poland in 1989, the plate show a differ figur: 1.1 million. peopl who try to deni about the holocaust had us thi varianc in the figur to claim that holocaust wa someth like a propaganda. howev, the fact remain that more than ss kill at least 1.1 million person in auschwitz camp, and holocaust is a fact of histori. 

recent the polish media and the govern had rais object on the us of the name like "polish death camp" to describ the auschwitz camp. us of such a name wa mislead and gave an impress of involv of poland. on april 1, 2006, a polish cultur ministri spokesman said that the govern request that unesco chang the name from "auschwitz concentr camp" to "former nazi german concentr camp auschwitz-birkenau". thi wa necessari to avoid mislead the public in believ that nazi of germani ran the camp and not the author of the poland. 

the polish govern had allow film at the site for two film, and a tv seri. howev, in some case, thei had disallow film insid the camp. in februari 2006, poland refus visa to some research from iran to visit auschwitz. thei took thi step as the presid of iran mahmoud ahmadinejad ha dismiss the holocaust as fals.

<titl>archeri</titl>
archeri is the practic of us a bow to shoot arrow. archeri ha histor been us in hunt and combat and ha becom a precis sport. a person practic archeri is call an archer, and on who is fond of or an expert at archeri is sometim call a toxophilit.

 the earliest evid of archeri date back more than 5,000 year. the bow probabl wa us in hunt first and wa then adopt as a tool of warfar. it wa on of the earliest form of artilleri. 

classic civil, notabl the persian, macedonian, nubian, greek, parthian, indian, japanes, chines, and korean, field larg number of archer in their armi. arrow prove exception destruct against mass format, and the us of archer often prove decis.

<titl>aeschylu</titl>
aeschylu wa an ancient greek writer who wrote about 76 plai. onli six of hi tragedi have surviv complet. aeschylu wa the earliest of the three greatest ancient greek writer of tragedi. the two other were sophocl and euripid. he is the first person to write tragedi. 

aristotl said that aeschylu ad more charact into hi plai. hi charact spoke to each other and not just to the choru. thi made it easier to creat drama between the charact.

on of hi plai, the persian, wa about the persian invas of greec. aeschylu had fought in thi war. peopl studi greek histori us hi plai as an import sourc of inform. the war wa so import to the greek and to aeschylu, that the write on hi grave onli talk about about hi part in the greek victori at marathon. there is noth about the plai he wrote.

 aeschylu wa born about the year 525 bc in a small town call eleusi, which is about 27 kilomet northwest of athen. the date is base on count back forti year from hi first victori in the great dionysia. hi famili wa rich, and hi father, euphorion, wa a member of the eupatrida, the ancient nobil of attica. pausania wrote that aeschylu work in a vineyard until the god dionysu visit him in hi sleep. the god order him to write the first tragedi. hi first plai wa perform in 499 bc, when he wa onli 26 year old.

 in 490 bc the persian armi, led by dariu, land in greec and tri to take it over. aeschylu, and hi brother cynegeiru, join the armi from athen and fought against the persian at the battl of marathon. the athenian were abl to defeat the much bigger persian armi. thi battl, which stop dariu, wa celebr across the citi-state of greec. cynegeiru di in the battl. in 480 bc, xerx i of persia, tri to captur greec. aeschylu fought against them at the battl of salami and at the battl of plataea in 479 bc. hi oldest surviv plai the persian, perform in 472 bc, is set dure the battl of salami. thi plai won first prize at the dionysia.

 aeschylu wa on of mani greek who join the eleusinian mysteri. thi wa the religi cult to demet, and base in hi home town of eleusi. member of the group learn mystic and secret knowledg. member were sworn under the penalti of death not to sai anyth about the mysteri to anyon. aristotl wrote that some peopl thought that aeschylu had shown some of the cult's secret on stage. other writer said that an angri mob tri to kill aeschylu on the spot, but he ran awai. later, aeschylu said he did not know that he had shown ani of the secret. he wa save from death onli becaus of hi brave servic in the persian war.

 aeschylu made two trip to sicili in the 470s bc. he wa invit by hieron, tyrant of syracus, a big greek citi on the east side of the island. on on these trip he wrote the women of aetna , in honor of the citi found by hieron. he also restag hi persian. by 473 bc, aeschylu wa the yearli favorit in the dionysia, win first prize in nearli everi competit. in 458 bc, he return to sicili for the last time, visit the citi of gela where he di in 456 or 455 bc. it is said that he wa kill by a tortois which fell out of the sky after it wa drop by an eagl. thi stori is probabl onli a legend. aeschylu' work wa so respect by the athenian that after hi death, hi were the onli tragedi allow to be restag in futur competit. hi son euphorion and euæon, and hi nephew philocl, all wrote plai as well.

greek drama began with festiv for the god, mainli dionysu, the god of wine. dure aeschylu' lifetim, dramat competit becam part of the citi dionysia in the spring. the festiv began with an open process, then a competit of boi sing dithyramb, and final two dramat competit. the first competit wa for three playwright each present three tragic plai, follow by a shorter comedi. a second competit of five comed playwright follow, and the winner of both competit were chosen by a group of judg.

aeschylu took part in mani of these competit in hi lifetim. he is believ to have written between 70 and 90 plai. onli six tragedi have surviv intact: the persian, seven against thebe, the suppliant, the trilogi known as the oresteia, consist of the three tragedi agamemnon, the libat bearer and the eumenid. there is also the plai prometheu bound, but thi wa probabl written by someon els. all of the surviv plai won first prize at the citi dionysia. on book, the alexandrian life of aeschylu, said that he won the first prize at the citi dionysia 13 time. sophocl' won 18 time out of hi 120 plai, and euripid onli had five win out of about 90 plai.

when aeschylu first began write, the theatr wa new. some playwright like thespi had made the cast bigger to includ an actor who wa abl to talk with the choru. aeschylu ad a second actor, allow for more drama; and the choru becam less import. he is said to have been the first to us skenographia, or scene-decor, but aristotl said the first person wa sophocl. aeschylu also ad more detail to the costum, and had hi actor wear platform boot, call cothurni, to help the audienc see them better. when thei walk on stage in the first perform of the eumenid, the choru of furi were so frighten in look that thei made young children faint, old men urin, and pregnant women go into labor.

hi plai were written in the strict style of greek drama. thei were in vers and no violenc could be perform on stage. the plai had to be set awai from normal life in athen, either by tell stori about the god or by be set, like the persian, in a far-awai place. aeschylu' work ha a strong moral and religi emphasi. the oresteia plai were about man's posit in the univers in relat to the god, the law of the god, and punish from the god. 

fifti year after aeschylu' death, the comic playwright aristophan prais him in the the frog. aeschylu is a charact in the plai and sai that hi seven against thebe "made everyon watch it to love be warlik" ; with hi persian, he sai he "taught the athenian to desir alwai to defeat their enemi" . he sai that hi plai help the athenian to be brave and virtuou .

<titl>ann brontë</titl>
ann brontë wa an english writer and poet. she is most famou for write agn grei and the tenant of wildfel hall .

ann wa born on januari 17, 1820 in thornton, yorkshir, england. she wa the daughter of patrick and mari brontë and the youngest of their six children. she wa taught at her famili's home in haworth by her sister, charlott. she work as a gover in 1839 and then again between 1841 and 1845.

in 1846 ann contribut 21 poem to poem by currer, elli and acton bell. thi wa a joint work with her sister, charlott and emili. agn grei wa publish in 1847 in three volum with wuther height, a book written by her sister emili. the tenant of wildfel hall wa publish in 1848 and sold well.

ann bront di on mai 28, 1849 in scarborough, yorkshir, england of tuberculosi.

<titl>augustin of hippo</titl>
aureliu augustinu, augustin of hippo, or saint augustin wa a philosoph, theologian, and wa bishop of the north african citi of hippo regiu for the last part of hi life. augustin is on of the most import figur in the develop of western christian, and is consid to be on of the church father. he frame the concept of origin sin and just war.

in roman catholic and the anglican communion, he is a saint and doctor of the church, and the patron of the augustinian religi order. mani protest, especi calvinist, consid him to be on of the theolog father of reform teach on salvat and grace. in the eastern orthodox church he is a saint, and hi feast dai is celebr annual on june 15. among the orthodox he is call bless augustin, or st. augustin the bless. "bless" here doe not mean that he is less than a saint, but is a titl bestow upon him as a sign of respect. the orthodox do not rememb augustin so much for hi theolog specul as for hi write on spiritu. 

<titl>ar</titl>
ar is the god of savag war and bloodlust in greek mytholog. he is the son of zeu and hera. he is on of the twelv olympian. neither parent like him. he is consid murder and bloodi. in the trojan war, he fought on the side of troi. he wa caught have sex with aphrodit, and fled to hi homeland of thrace.

<titl>advanc australia fair</titl>
advanc australia fair is the offici nation anthem of australia. 

peter dodd mccormick wrote the music and the word for the song. it wa first perform in 1878, but it onli becam australia's offici anthem in 1984. 

between 1878 and 1984, the song wa us insid of australia as a patriot song. for a time the song announc the new from the australian broadcast commiss. when australia becam a feder in 1901, the song wa sung by a choir of 10,000 peopl.

in 1977 there wa a vote for the nation anthem between four song. the other three song were:

advanc australia fair receiv 43.29% of the vote, defeat the three altern: waltz matilda , song of australia , and the exist nation anthem god save the queen . howev, it wa not until 1984 that the nation anthem wa chang to reflect the popular vote.

other song and march have been influenc by advanc australia fair, such as the australian vice-regal salut.

<titl>amerigo vespucci</titl>
amerigo vespucci wa an italian merchant, explor and cartograph. he wa the first person to explain that the new world discov by christoph columbu in 1492 wa not the eastern area of asia, but an unknown contin .

it is also popularli believ that north and south america deriv their name from a latin version hi first name.

he di of malaria.

<titl>august rodin</titl>
august rodin wa a french sculptor. he made solid object from stone or clai. hi most famou work ar 'the thinker' and 'the kiss'. 

<titl>ann arbor, michigan</titl>
ann arbor is a citi in michigan and the home of the univers of michigan. it is sometim refer to as "new york west" or "san francisco of the midwest".

<titl>aircraft hijack</titl>
aircraft hijack is the takeov of an aircraft, by a person or group, usual arm. in most case the pilot is forc to fly accord to the order of the hijack. sometim the hijack fly the plane themselv, as believ to have occur in the septemb 11, 2001 attack. in on case the offici pilot hijack the plane, when he divert hi intern air china flight to taiwan.

<titl>acropoli of athen</titl>
the 'acropoli of athen' is the most famou acropoli. it is a larg hill in the center of athen, on which the parthenon and some other greek build were built. it is often known as the acropoli.

<titl>aeronaut</titl>
aeronaut is the studi or scienc of how to build and oper fly machin. in modern time thi mostli mean aeroplan or helicopt. the premier organis involv init applic ar nasa in the us ,isro in india.

<titl>act of the apostl</titl>
the act of the apostl is a book of the bibl, which now is the fifth in the new testament. it is often simpli call act.

act tell the stori of the earli christian church, with particular interest for the ministri of the twelv apostl and of paul of tarsu. the earli chapter, plai in jerusalem, report jesu's resurrect, hi ascens, the dai of pentecost, and the start of the twelv apostl' ministri. the later chapter report paul's convers, hi ministri, and final hi arrest and imprison and trip to rome.  most peopl think that the author of act also wrote the gospel of luke. the tradit view is that both the two book were written c. 60 by a companion of paul name luke. mani theologian still think so. but some modern scholar think the book were written by an unknown author at a later date, sometim between 80 and 150. 

<titl>assyria</titl>
in the middl bronz ag assyria wa a region on the upper tigri river, name for it origin capit, the ancient citi of assur. assyrian made the cuneiform write system.

<titl>asterix</titl>
asterix is a french comic book, creat by rené goscinni and albert uderzo . goscinni di in 1977 and uderzo continu to draw and write the seri by himself. the titl charact asterix is a gaul, a member of celtic tribe that live in franc, mani year ago. asterix live in a small villag in northwest gaul dure the time of juliu caesar in 50 bc. unlik, the rest of gaul, thi villag ha not been taken over by the roman, becaus the peopl in the villag drink a magic potion brew by their druid. asterix ha mani adventur with hi friend, obelix. the stori have been adapt into movi and video game, there is even an amus park.

<titl>arizona cardin</titl>
the arizona cardin ar a profession american footbal team base in phoenix, arizona. thei ar the oldest continu profession american footbal club in the unit state, found in 1898 in chicago, illinoi. thei move to st. loui, missouri in 1960 befor move to phoenix in 1988. the head coach of the team is ken whisenhunt.there quarterback is kurt warner. arizon cardin plai their home game at the univers of phoenix stadium.

<titl>atlanta falcon</titl>
the atlanta falcon ar an american footbal team in atlanta, georgia. thei ar a member of the nfc south of the nation footbal confer in the nation footbal leagu . the falcon join the nfl as a 1966 expans team. in their 42 year in the nfl, the falcon have a record of 262-386-6 with divis championship in 1980, 1998 and 2004, and appear in super bowl xxxiii in miami, florida.

<titl>astrolog</titl>
astrolog is the studi of the planet which circl the sun. a person who doe astrolog is call an astrolog .

an astrolog look at the planet' posit and tri to understand a person's charact or tri to predict the futur.

astrolog and astronomi start out as the same thing, but todai thei ar veri differ. 

astronomi look at the star for scienc, but astrolog look at the planet' posit to understand peopl and their futur.

most scientist think that astrolog doe not work, becaus there is no scientif evid.

a person's astrolog sign is base on hi birthdai. thi tabl show the zodiac name in latin with their english translat. it also show the element and qualiti associ with each sign.

<titl>arizona diamondback</titl>
the arizona diamondback ar a major leagu basebal team base in phoenix, arizona. thei were start in 1998. thei plai their home game at chase field. in 2001, thei beat the new york yanke to win their first world seri, becom the fastest new team to do thi.

<titl>aesthet</titl>
aesthet is a branch of philosophi. it is the philosophi of art and beauti. togeth with ethic it is part of axiolog which is the philosophi of what peopl like.

aesthet philosoph ask what peopl like to look at, hear, feel, smell or tast, and why thei like these thing. aesthet philosoph also ask if art ha ani valu. for exampl thei mai ask if some art that nobodi like and that nobodi want is art at all, or if it is someth els.

on theori in aesthet is call subjectiv. subjectiv sai that each person ha their own sens of beauti. so the onli wai of judg someth's beauti is if peopl sai it is beauti, that beauti is 'in the ey of the behold'. subjectiv also sai, for the same reason, that someth is art simpli becaus i sai it is art. thi is back up by the fact that, even though we instict know when we find someth beauti, we ar usual at a loss to explain, even to ourselv, why it attract us. 

mani aesthet philosoph do not like subjectiv, becaus it is such an unsatisfactori answer; even though it is difficult to identifi rule which show why certain thing ar 'definit' beauti, everybodi agre that some object ar more beauti or interest than other. thi suggest that art and beauti ar somehow to do with the object itself, as well as with the person who experi that object. 

subjectiv also fail to provid a us distinct between good art and bad art. thi is an issu which mani peopl ar interest to resolv, partli becaus thei want to develop their sens of beauti, and partli becaus peopl who ar activ in the art feel strongli that differ of opinion ar not just person differ in tast, but import differ of attitud about the us and the valu of art - is it an educ process or a commerci product? is it a wai of explor our inner live or should it be a medium of state propaganda? when we clarifi these issu, it becom clear, in turn what we realli mean to sai by statement like, 'thi art is beauti'.

mani objectivist theori of beauti have been offer, go from veri ancient idea plato and aristotl which still have great appeal in their own wai to neurosci research into the brain's respons to imag and other sens stimula. at the moment, even though we don't know what peopl ar think, brain-scan technolog can identifi when peopl ar respond pleasur to imag, provid some clue as to how certain imag affect some peopl.

plato, aristotl and immanuel kant ar some import philosoph of aesthet.

<titl>ark of the coven</titl>
the ark of the coven is describ in the bibl as a holi contain where the tablet of stone with the ten command and other holi israelit piec ar contain. 

accord to the biblic account, the ark wa built at the command of god, follow mose' prophet vision on mount sinai .

 the hebrew word aron is us in the bibl to design ani type of ark or chest, for ani purpos . the ark of the coven is distinguish from all other by such titl as "ark of god" , "ark of the coven" , "ark of the testimoni" . the ark is a rais cupboard found in jewish synagogu which contain the holi torah scroll. these ar all written by hand and can take year to make. it is alwai on the wall of the synagogu which face toward jerusalem. when the ark is open and the torah remov for read everyon stand in respect of god. dure some prayer and servic the ark door an inner curtain ar kept open.

 the bibl describ the ark as made of acacia or shittah-tree wood. it wa a cubit and a half broad and high, and two and a half cubit long . the ark wa cover all over with the purest gold. 

<titl>angl</titl>
the angl were a german peopl of unknown origin. their name seem to be connect with angeln, a modern district locat in schleswig-holstein, germani. 

the angl, togeth with the jute, saxon and frisian, were mention amongst the german tribe who sail across the north sea to raid and eventu invad great britain.

<titl>atlanta brave</titl>
the atlanta brave ar a major leagu basebal team in atlanta, georgia. the brave' home stadium is turner field where thei have been plai at sinc 1997. from 1991 to 2005 the brave, with the except of 1994 becaus of a strike, won their divis. thei won the world seri in 1995 against the cleveland indian. on famou player that wa on the brave wa hank aaron, from 1954 to 1976.

<titl>aaliyah</titl>
aaliyah dana haughton wa an african-american rhythm and blue singer and actor. her parent move with her to detroit, michigan when she wa twenti year old. she wa go to be in the matrix reload film, but the filmmak had to us anoth person after she di.

aaliyah wa borm on januari 16, 1979 in new york. she grew up in detroit . from her youth, she began to sing : she did sing competit, cast and show. her career began in 1994 with her album " ag ain't noth but a number " but she continu go to high school of the perform art. in 1996, aaliyah's second album came out with r.kelli as produc : " on in a million ". her music seduc a public alwai bigger. aaliyah alwai wish plai act and she had her lead role in " romeo must die " realis by andrzei bartkowiak . and then she plai in " queen of the damn " in 2000 too. in 2001, she came back with her third album call " aaliyah ", the most person of her whole career. she put a lot into it, as a singer and as an execut produc with her uncl by her side. it's the album of matur. unfortun, she di on august 25, 2001 in a plane crash in the bahama. 

<titl>armour</titl>
armour is a protect cover or cloth us to try to prevent injuri when be attack. armour can be worn by a person, or it can be us to protect machin, anim, even build. armour ha alwai been made from the strongest materi avail at the time, but weight ha alwai been a problem. earli armour wa made from leather, then later metal were us . some modern armour, like bullet-proof vest, ar made from plastic that don't stretch or break, such as kevlar. these plastic mai be woven into a cloth and us in layer, which make them even stronger.

 armour put on vehicl is usual made of metal and can includ on layer over anoth with open space in between or multipl layer of metal; ceram , and other materi. anoth type of armour us block of explos that explod when anoth explos goe off near it. thi explos armour protect by push against the other explos. vehicl armor is often angl to increas the amount of armour that must be shot through to get insid and to make the shot bounc off rather than pierc the armour.

tank have the heaviest armour of all land vehicl. other militari vehicl have armour, but not as much as a tank. 

sometim armour is put in non-militari vehicl, such as limousin us by leader of a countri or by anyon who think thei might be attack, eg film star or presid of major compani.

 in the past, armour ha also been us in war to protect anim such as dog, eleph, and hors. todai, polic dog and hors sometim wear woven plastic bullet-proof vest.

 mani sport involv violent physic contact and mai be highli danger if the player ar unprotect. such sport includ ic hockei, american footbal and kendo. sport armour is usual made from hard plastic.

<titl>all quiet on the western front</titl>
all quiet on the western front is a famou book by the german author erich maria remarqu. it wa first publish in 1929.

 it is about a german soldier name paul bäumer as he fight togeth with hi classmat in world war i. troop ar chang everi coupl of week; thei ar either sent to the front line or a few mile back. at the begin, baumer and hi fellow soldier ar veri full and satisfi becaus a veri heavi bombard kill off half of the compani.

a number of soldier and baumer ar injur on night, and all ar taken to the local hospit. in there, when a nurs give baumer a temperatur gaug, he us a light and make hi temperatur seem much higher than it realli is. thi is so he can go into critic care with hi friend. while there, the nurs sing a hymn, which annoi the men. baumer throw and break a bottl to make them shut the door.

on night, baumer and hi friend find two live pig. thei put togeth a feast. baumer cook some kind of cake. thei smoke cigarett and drink coffe from the offic's dump and then roast the pig. the meal is veri good, but the pig meat stick to their bowel and make them go to the bathroom all night.

as the war draw to it end in 1918, the german ar suffer. the food bad and the men must keep go to the bathroom. the american have join the war and ar push back all of the ground that the german gain. dure thi time, mani of baumer's classmat die.

at the end of the novel, baumer di. the dai wa so quiet that the field command describ the dai as "all quiet on the western front."

 the book sold 2.9 million copi in 50 languag in eighteen month. it is publish by ballantin book in 1929. thi book and it sequel, the road back, were ban and burn in nazi germani. the film version won the academi award for best pictur in 1930.

<titl>afrikaan</titl>
afrikaan is a west german languag mainli spoken in south africa and namibia. it wa origin the dialect that develop among the afrikan protest settler, the unfre worker, and slave brought to the cape area in southwestern south africa by the dutch east india compani between 1652 and 1705. most of these first settler were from the unit provinc , though there were also mani from germani, some from franc, a few from scotland, and variou other countri. the unfre worker and slave were malai, and malagasi in addit to the nativ khoi and bushmen.

research by j. a. hees sai that until 1807, 36.8% of the ancestor of the white afrikaan speak popul were dutch, 35% were german, 14.6% were french and 7.2% non-white . hees's figur ar question by other research, howev, and especi the non-white compon quot by hees is veri much in doubt.

a sizeabl minor of those who spoke afrikaan as a first languag were not white. the dialect becam known as "cape dutch". later, afrikaan wa sometim call "african dutch" or "kitchen dutch". afrikaan wa consid a dutch dialect until the earli 20th centuri, when it began to be wide known as a differ languag. the name afrikaan is simpli the dutch word for african, and the languag is the african form of dutch.

<titl>abc</titl>
abc could also mean: easi as count .

<titl>arsen f.c.</titl>
arsen footbal club is an english footbal club.

the club plai in the english premier leagu. thei won the first divis and english premier leagu 13 time and the fa cup 10 time. thei ar the onli british club to have been the subject of a featur film.

it wa found in 1886 and wa origin call dial squar f.c. name after a sundial on the side of a factori. the team plai in a tradit red and white kit. thei plai at arsen stadium in highburi in north london from 1913 - 2006, but now thei plai in a new stadium call the emir stadium. the current captain of the side is cesc fàbrega, a spanish nation footbal player.   the manag of arsen f.c. is arène wenger. their assist manag is pat rice. their new emir stadium wa open on the 27th of octob 2006, by the duke of edinburgh. arsen also ha a women's team call arsen ladi f.c.. the ladi team is the onli team in women's footbal histori to have ever won four trophi in on season. the most famou, and success, arsen manag ever is thought to be herbert chapman. chapman won the first divis with arsen twice and the fa cup onc.

<titl>atlanti</titl>
atlanti is a name for a larg island or small contin that might have been in the atlant ocean a long time ago, but sank into the sea and disappear.

the stori of atlanti first appear in the stori timaeu and critia by the greek philosoph plato. in all of hi book, plato us mani interest stori to help explain hi idea about govern and philosophi. no other ancient writer gave specif detail about atlanti until after plato wrote, so most peopl todai think that plato just made up thi stori.

after plato, the idea of atlanti wa mostli forgotten until 1882, when a writer name ignatiu donnelli wrote a book sai that atlanti wa real and that the cultur of atlanti had start mani other ancient cultur, such as the egyptian and mayan. 

after donnelli's book, mani peopl becam interest in atlanti and began to sai that it had aircraft, submarin, power energi crystal, and other thing that ar not known from ancient time.

by studi the type of rock that ar found in the bottom of the atlant ocean, scientist ar sure that there wa never realli ani larg island or small contin there, so mani peopl todai think that plato mai have heard a stori about anoth place and move it to the atlant ocean in hi book.

differ peopl have thought that mani place all over the world have been the place of the "real atlanti" curious, mani cultur from around the world who had no contact share a similar stori of a civil sink into the sea.

<titl>autobiographi</titl>
an autobiographi is a book in which the author write about hi or her own life. a biographi is a book about someon's life. the latin word "auto" mean "self", so an "autobiographi" is a biographi about oneself. mani famou peopl wrote autobiographi. the origin of autobiographi is from greek. 

<titl>arab peopl</titl>
the arab ar an origin arabian ethnic widespread in the middl east and north africa.

there ar mani peopl who can be call arab by these point who do not think of themselv as arab. on such exampl includ the origin egyptian and the syriac. although thei live in countri like syria or egypt which is part of the arab leagu and ar forc to speak the offici languag-arab, thei ar a differ group. thei have their own languag, cultur, ident and church like the coptic orthodox and the syriac cathol and orthodox church. even though mani have assimil to arab societi, thei have their own heritag that span 3,000 year. 

just becaus thei live in a certain place and the govern of those place act in a certain wai, that doesn't make peopl a differ race. 

that is the cruelti of modern arab govern like saddam hussein's aggress against kurd. mani even view the govern of syria as a "fake" or untru "syrian land."

 in islam and jewish tradit, arab ar a semit peopl who trace their ancestri from ishmael, a son of the ancient patriarch abraham and hagar. mediev arab genealogist separ the arab into two group: the "origin arab" of south arabia, descend from qahtan and the "arab arab" of north arabia, descend from adnan who is descend from ishmael.

<titl>armadillo</titl>
armadillo ar small placent mammal, known for have a boni armor shell. the dasypodida ar the onli surviv famili in the order cingulata, part of the superord xenarthra togeth with the anteat and sloth. the word armadillo is spanish for "littl armor on". 

there ar approxim 10 extant genera and around 20 extant speci of armadillo. their averag length is about 75 centimet , includ tail. the giant armadillo grow up to 100 cm and weigh 30 kg . all speci live in the america. 

<titl>abdulaziz al-omari</titl>
abdulaziz al-omari wa name by the fbi as on of the hijack of the first plane which wa crash into the world trade center in the septemb 11, 2001 attack.

<titl>arab alphabet</titl>
the arab alphabet is an alphabet that ha been us to write the arab languag. some other languag us a similar write system; exampl ar persian and urdu.

there ar 28 basic letter. all of them ar cursiv, both in handwrit and in print. thi mean that insid a word, a letter is usual directli connect to the letter follow it. arab is written from right to left. each letter can have up to 4 differ form. which of the form is us depend on the letter befor and after it. the form for uppercas letter and lowercas letter is the same. 

the alphabet can also be us to write number. thi wa common in the middl ag. todai it can be found more rare. usual, latin-alphabet number ar us.

anoth usag that is rare todai, is to us the letter of the alphabet to stand for number. that wai, the letter is 1,   is 2,   is 3, and so on until 

 = 1000. thi is sometim us to produc chronogram.

<titl>armenian languag</titl>
the armenian languag is a indo-european languag.

the armenian languag is an indo-european languag spoken by armenian. it is the offici languag of the armenia as well as in the region of nagorno-karabakh. the languag is also wide spoken by armenian commun all over the world. it ha it own alphabet, the armenian alphabet.

<titl>aircraft carrier</titl>
aircraft carrier ar warship that carri airplan and other aircraft. thei ar us by navi to allow airplan to fight along with naval warship. aircraft carrier ar usual veri larg, carri hundr or thousand of sailor and ten or hundr of aircraft.

the top of an aircraft carrier is call the flight deck and look like a veri small airport. old aircraft carrier carri airplan that could takeoff and land in the short distanc of the flight deck without help. similarli, small modern aircraft carrier onli carri helicopt or special design airplan that can take off and land straight up and down or in the short distanc of the flight deck. the flight deck of a larg, modern aircraft carrier ha a land area and a take-off area. the land area is in the back and ha a short runwai. airplan stop by us a hook on the back of the airplan to grab wire stretch across the runwai. in the front, the flight deck ha a steam-power catapult that connect to the front wheel of an airplan. the catapult throw the airplan off the deck, help it take off quickli.

becaus thei ar so big, modern aircraft carrier often have on-board nuclear power plant. other aircraft carrier ar power by diesel engin.

except for their airplan, aircraft carrier usual have few weapon, so other warship escort them. togeth, the aircraft carrier and these warship form a carrier group.

<titl>apicomplexa</titl>
the apicomplexa ar a larg group of protist, character by the presenc of a uniqu organel call an apic complex . thei ar unicellular, spore-form, and exclus parasit of anim. motil structur such as flagella or pseudopod ar absent except in certain gamet stage. thi is a divers group includ organ such as coccidia, gregarin, piroplasm, haemogregarin, and malaria; some diseas caus by apicomplexan organ includ:

<titl>ad hominem</titl>
ad hominem is a latin term. it is us in rhetor. rhetor is the scienc of how to speak well, and how to convinc other peopl of your idea. 

translat to english, ad hominem mean against the person . 

the term is us to describ a rhetor argument, that is direct toward the person who sai someth, not about the caus at hand. it is a wai to us reput and rumour and hearsai to chang mind.

when a social network ha alreadi exclud or exil on person, or appli a label to them, thi work more often.

becaus it work and is also unfair to everyon who would benefit from what thei sai, it is consid to be a weak or poor argument. formal disapprov of those who us it is common in a court or in diplomaci, where danger is high.

 in logic, a proof is someth that start with premis, and goe through a few logic argument, to reach a conclus.

in thi exampl it can be seen that the fact that person a is uneduc and poor is us to prove that abort should not be illeg.

<titl>activ</titl>
activ, in a gener sens, can be describ as the intent action to bring about chang, usual an import chang.

<titl>analges</titl>
analget is a term for some drug that ar us to stop pain. these ar also known as painkil. there ar sever kind of painkil. all act on the nervou system. most painkil have the problem that thei can make peopl addict if thei ar taken over longer period of time. 

<titl>april 3</titl>
april 3 is the 93rd dai of the year in the gregorian calendar. there ar 272 dai remain until the end of the year.

<titl>adren gland</titl>
the adren gland is a part of most mammal' bodi, it is locat near the kidnei. it name tell about it posit . it help control the level of stress. it is involv in the product of steroid hormon. among these hormon ar cortisol and adrenalin. the gland sit on the kidnei 

<titl>arama languag</titl>
arama is a languag that is 3000 year old, or even more. it is part of a group of languag call the semit languag. thi group ha arama, hebrew, arab and mani other languag in it. some old kingdom us arama languag for busi. some religion us arama for their meet. arama is the languag of big part of the two bibl book of daniel and ezra. it is the languag of the jewish talmud. most peopl think that arama wa the languag of jesu. arama is spoken todai by small group of peopl.

in the 12th centuri bc, aramaean, the first speaker of arama start to make their home in todai's countri of syria, iraq and east turkei. their languag becam more import. it becam the most import languag in the middl east. jewish speaker of arama took the languag with them to north africa and europ. christian speaker of arama took the languag with them to persia, india and even china. in the 7th centuri ad, arama stop be the most import languag in the middl east. the arab languag becam the new import languag. but, arama is still the languag of write and religion for jew, mandaean and some christian. small group of peopl still speak arama in differ part of the middl east. the war of the last two centuri made mani arama speaker leav their home and go to live in mani, differ place around the world.

arama is not on languag without ani chang. becaus mani differ peopl over mani centuri spoke and wrote it, there ar mani differ type of arama languag. these differ type ar call dialect, but some of them ar so differ that thei ar like differ languag. the differ dialect make two group: an eastern group and a western group. the divis between them is around the line of the river euphrat. we also divid up the dialect by their place in time. old arama is the name of the oldest dialect. onli special teacher learn old arama. middl arama is the group of dialect that peopl do not speak everi dai, but thei us them for special thing like write and religion. modern arama is the group of dialect that peopl us everi dai. thei ar live languag.

<titl>actinoid</titl>
the actinid seri is the 15 chemic element between actinium and lawrencium on the period tabl. thei have the atom number between 89 - 103. the actinid seri is name after actinium. all of the element ar radioact.

<titl>arthur miller</titl>
arthur miller wa a famou american playwright, a person who write plai. hi most famou plai ar all my son, death of a salesman and the crucibl. he also wrote for the movi the misfit while he wa marri to marilyn monro. she act in thi movi.

 arthur miller's famili wa a rich famili from new york. dure the great depress in the 1930s, the famili lost all their monei. becaus miller want to go to univers, he had to work in a warehous. he studi econom and histori at the univers of michigan, and also learnt how to write plai. he marri mari slatteri in 1940.

 in 1944, miller had hi first plai in a theatr on broadwai in new york, call the man who had all the luck. not mani peopl like it so thi plai wa stop after on week. 

howev, three year later, hi plai all my son becam veri popular. thi plai won the pulitz prize for drama.

in 1949, he wrote death of a salesman, a stori about the american dream.

in 1953, he wrote the crucibl, a stori about the salem witch trial. he wrote thi becaus of the mccarthyism of the 1950s, the fear that commun would take over america. a few year later, miller wa a accus of be a communist himself. he had to answer question from the hous un-american activ committe, a group that senat joseph mccarthi made. 

in 1956, miller divorc mari slatteri so he could marri the actress marilyn monro. dure thi marriag, he wrote for the movi the misfit. monro act in thi movi. after five year of marriag, monro divorc him.

the follow year, miller marri again. the photograph ing morath wa hi third wife, and thei were togeth until she di in 2002. thei had two children.

hi son, daniel, wa born with down syndrom. miller put him in a hospit and did not want to see him again. hi daughter, rebecca, marri actor daniel dai-lewi, who ask miller sever time to contact hi hospitalis son.

arthur miller di in roxburi, connecticut in 2005.

<titl>area 51</titl>
area 51 is the popular nicknam for a militari, or armi, base in nevada, usa. it is about 83 mile north-west of the citi, la vega. the base main purpos is to test secret new aircraft and weapon. for thi reason detail about the base ar kept quit secret. becaus of all the secreci there ar mani idea and conspiraci theori about the base, the most famou be the idea that alien technolog is kept there. 

<titl>alkaloid</titl>
alkaloid ar chemic compound that can be made natur. thei contain basic nitrogen atom. the name come from the word alkalin and wa us to describ ani alkalin contain nitrogen. alkaloid ar made by a larg varieti of organ, such as bacteria, fungi, plant, and anim and ar part of the group of natur product . mani alkaloid can be purif from basic substanc by acid-base extract. mani alkaloid ar toxic to other organ. some alkaloid have a bitter tast.

<titl>archbishop of canterburi</titl>
the archbishop of canterburi is the spiritu leader of the church of england and the anglican communion. he is the head of the church, and live in the english citi of canterburi. the leader is alwai chosen by the english ruler, or monarch. 

the offic of archbishop of canterburi began in the year 597. in that year, saint augustin came to england, to the area call kent. he had been sent by the pope to convinc the local peopl to becom christian. the peopl accept him and christian when their king becam a christian. sinc then, there ha been an archbishop at canterburi in kent.

the archbishop of canterburi us to be head of the roman cathol church in england, but in the 1500s the english church broke awai from the roman church. the new church call itself the church of england, and now the archbishop is the leader of that church. the current archbishop is rowan william.

<titl>a.s. roma</titl>
a.s. roma is a footbal club which plai in itali.

the club form from a merger of three club ; alba-audac roma, fortitudo-pro roma and roman in 1927.

the current captain of the club is francesco totti.

<titl>antibodi</titl>
antibodi ar special protein. thei ar found in the blood or other bodi fluid of vertebr. the immun system us antibodi to identifi foreign object, such as bacteria and virus. these object ar then neutral, so that thei can no longer caus problem and diseas. 

each antibodi is differ. thei ar all design to attack onli on kind of viru or bacteria. for instanc, an antibodi design to destroi smallpox ar unabl to hit the bubon plagu or the common cold. an antibodi resembl the letter "y". at the two end of the "y" ar special shape antigen that can onli insert themselv in on type of germ. thi is need, becaus everi antibodi is differ. when the antibodi find the germ it's after, it "know" becaus of it special antigen. if the antibodi can insert it antigen into the germ, it will go to work either destroi it by block it from "germ food" , or call white blood cell to eat it, therebi kill whatev it wa after. 

it is the job of the "humor" section of the immun system to make antibodi.

antibodi can be found almost anywher in the blood. if a doctor were to look at on, he or she would call it a globulin, becaus that is what it is shape like.

antibodi ar also made by special "b cell" in the immun system. b cell onli attack when their antibodi tell them to. onc alert, the b cell goe to work, break germ down into noth but harmless goo. in some case, a b cell can't do it alon. when that happen, a t helper cell is call in to help.

<titl>alessandro scarlatti</titl>
alessandro scarlatti wa an italian compos. he live in the baroqu period. he is especi famou for hi opera and chamber cantata. he is thought of as the founder of the neapolitan school of opera. he wa the father of the famou compos domenico scarlatti.

 scarlatti wa born in palermo. at that time it wa part of the kingdom of sicili. we know noth about hi music educ. when hi opera gli equivoci nell sembiant wa produc in rome in 1679 the queen of sweden, who wa live in rome at the time, wa veri impress and gave him the job of be her maestro di cappella. in februari 1684 he becam maestro di cappella to the viceroi of napl. he wrote mani opera for him, as well as some music for import state occas. 

in 1702 scarlatti left napl and went to florenc where he compos opera for ferdinando de' medici and for cardin ottoboni, who made him hi maestro di cappella. in 1703 he also got a similar job in rome at the basilica di santa maria maggior. 

after visit venic and urbino in 1707, scarlatti went back to napl in 1708, and stai there until 1717. howev, the audienc in napl no longer seem interest in hi music. thei like their seriou opera to includ comic music. some of hi best opera were written for rome where thei were produc at the teatro capranica. he also wrote some church music and music for royal wed. he di in napl.

 scarlatti's music form an import link between the earli baroqu italian vocal style of the 17th centuri and the classic period of the 18th centuri, which led to the music of haydn and mozart. 

perhap hi greatest work is mitrid eupator. mani of hi later opera ar full of music which allow the singer to show off. in hi opera teodora he wa the first compos to us the orchestr ritornello . 

some of hi later opera written for rome make the orchestra sound much more modern. he us horn in the orchestra. thi wa a new idea.

as well as opera, scarlatti compos at least five hundr chamber-cantata. these ar work for solo voic accompani by orchestra. hardli ani of them were publish, but thei contain a lot of good music.

he also wrote mass includ the st cecilia mass .

<titl>aston martin</titl>
aston martin lagonda limit is a luxuri car compani that wa found in 1913 by lionel martin and robert bamford.

the compani name is deriv from the aston clinton hill climb and on of the compani's founder, lionel martin. ford motor compani own aston martin until 2007, at which time it wa sold to invest dar and adeem invest.

<titl>andhra pradesh</titl>
andhra pradesh is a state in the republ of india. about 75,727,000 person live in thi as report in censu of 2001. the eastern boundari is a 600-mile coastlin along the bai of bengal. the state ha an area of 106,195 mi² , it is bigger than burkina faso but smaller than ecuador.

the capit citi is hyderabad.

<titl>aalen</titl>
aalen is a town in the german state of baden-württemberg. it is the capit of the ostalbkrei district, and it largest town.

<titl>aloi alzheim</titl>
aloi alzheim, german psychiatrist, is credit with the first publish case of "presenil dementia", which kraepelin would later identifi as alzheim's diseas.

<titl>american airlin</titl>
american airlin, inc. is a fort worth, texa, unit state-base airlin. 

<titl>antidepress</titl>
an antidepress is a type of medic that is us to treat peopl with mood disord includ depress. there ar differ type of antidepress, call monoamin oxidas inhibitor , tricycl antidepress , tetracycl antidepress , select serotonin reuptak inhibitor and serotonin-norepinephrin reuptak inhibitor . antidepress work to improv the mood. doctor think that when someon is depress, the chemic in their brain ar not work properli. antidepress balanc these chemic, lift the depress. 

<titl>adhes</titl>
an adhes is a compound that adher or bond two item togeth. adhes mai come from either natur or synthet sourc. some modern adhes ar extrem strong, and ar becom increasingli import in modern construct and industri. 

 the first adhes were natur gum and other plant resin. archaeologist have found 6000-year-old ceram vessel that had broken and been repair us plant resin. 

<titl>anthoni hopkin</titl>
sir philip anthoni hopkin cbe is an academi award, golden globe and emmi award-win movi, stage and televis actor. he wa born and rais in wale, but becam an american citizen in 2000. he is veri famou for mani role in movi, especi as doctor hannib lecter in the silenc of the lamb.

<titl>applic program interfac</titl>
an applic program interfac is a set of function, procedur, method or class us by comput program to request servic from the oper system, softwar librari or ani other servic provid run on the comput. a comput programm us the word in the api to make applic program.

type of api includ web servic api like the twitter api, which allow program to us the api to receiv updat on tweet.

<titl>advanc micro devic</titl>
amd is a larg american compani that make comput hardwar. it make mani differ comput part, but it is most famou for it central process unit, or cpu. todai's most common cpu made by amd is the athlon 64. it start as a compani that made product for intel, anoth larg hardwar compani.

<titl>albrecht dürer</titl>
albrecht dürer wa a german painter, engrav and mathematician. 

he wa born and di in nuremberg, germani and is best known as a maker of old master print. hi print were often in a seri, so that there is a group of differ print about a subject. the most famou seri ar the apocalyps and hi two seri on the passion of christ, the great passion and the littl passion . 

dürer's best known individu engrav includ , and melencolia i . hi most icon imag ar hi woodcut of the from the apocalyps seri, the "rhinocero", and numer self-portrait in oil. dürer possibl did not cut hi own woodblock but mai have emploi a skill carver who follow hi draw faithfulli. he paint a number of religi work in oil and made mani brilliant watercolour and draw, which through modern reproduct ar now perhap hi best known work. 

dürer's print made him famou across europ befor he wa 30, and mani peopl sai he is the greatest artist of the renaiss in northern europ. 

dürer wa born on mai 21, 1471, third child and second son of hi parent, who had between fourteen and eighteen children. hi father wa a success goldsmith from ajtós, near gyula in hungari. 

dürer's godfath wa anton koberg, who left goldsmith to becom a printer and publish in the year dürer wa born. he quickli becam the most success publish in germani, and own twenti-four print-press and had mani offic in germani and abroad. hi most famou public wa the nuremberg chronicl, publish in 1493 in german and latin. it had 1,809 woodcut pictur by the wolgemut workshop. dürer mai well have work on some of these, as the work on the project began while he wa with wolgemut. 

dürer hadstart to learn goldsmith and draw from hi father. hi father want him to continu hi train as a goldsmith, but he wa so good at draw that he start as an apprentic to michael wolgemut at the ag of fifteen in 1486. a self-portrait, a draw in silverpoint, is date 1484 . wolgemut wa the lead artist in nuremberg at the time, and had a larg workshop make differ type of work of art, in particular woodcut for book. nuremberg wa a rich citi, a centr for publish and mani luxuri trade. it had strong link with itali, especi venic, a rel short distanc across the alp.

 .after complet hi term of apprenticeship in 1489, dürer follow the common german custom of take a wanderjahr — in effect a gap year. dürer wa awai nearli four year, travel through germani, switzerland, and probabl, the netherland. dürer want to meet martin schongauer, the best engrav of northern europ, but schongauer di shortli befor dürer's arriv. he stai at the hous of schongauer's brother, and got some pictur that schongauer own. 

hi first paint self-portrait is now in the louvr. it wa paint in strasbourg, probabl so that dürer could send it back to hi fiancée in nuremberg.. in fact, veri soon after he got back to nuremberg, on juli 7, 1494 dürer wa marri to agn frei. she wa the daughter of a well known brass worker in the citi. he wa 23, and the marriag wa arrang while dürer wa awai travel. hi absenc. thei had no children, and most peopl think that thei did not marri for love, but becaus it wa good to link the two famili. also, a singl man could not set up in busi for himself in nuremberg. dürer paint some portrait of hi wife, but expert sai that thei "lack warmth". the expert think that if dürer love hi wife he would have taken more time over those pictur to make her look more beauti and friendli. 

within three month dürer left for itali. the start of plagu in nuremberg wa on reason for hi leav. 

in itali, he went to venic where artist were work in a more modern style. dürer wrote that giovanni bellini wa the oldest and still the best of the artist in venic. 

on hi return to nuremberg in 1495, dürer open hi own workshop. he start to us what he learn in itali more and more, so hi work wa quit differ from the other artist in nuremberg who us onli the tradit german style. 

dürer's father di in 1502 and hi mother di in 1513. 

dürer probabl did not cut ani of the woodblock himself. thi wa a job for expert. but he had design and cut woodblock for woodcut as part of hi train in wolgemut's studio, and he had seen mani carv and paint altarpiec made in the studio. thi mean he knew what could be made into a woodblock print, and how to work with the expert block cutter. dürer either drew hi design directli onto the woodblock itself, or glu a paper draw to the block. either wai hi draw wa destroi when the block wa cut. 

hi famou seri of sixteen great design for the apocalyps ar date 1498. he made the first seven scene of the great passion in the same year, and a littl later, a seri of eleven on the holi famili and saint. around 1503–1505 he produc the first seventeen of a set illustr the life of the virgin, which he did not finish for some year. neither these, nor the great passion, were publish as set until sever year later, but print were sold individu in consider number.

the venetian artist jacopo de' barbari, whom dürer had met in venic, visit nuremberg in 1500, and dürer said that he learn much about the new develop in perspect, anatomi, and bodi proport from him. de'barbari did not want to tell dürer everyth he knew, so dürer began hi own studi, and he kept studi for the rest of hi life. thi is a seri of draw show dürer's experi in human proport, befor he made hi famou engrav of adam and ev . thi is the onli exist engrav sign with hi full name.

dürer made larg number of other practic draw, especi for hi paint and engrav, and mani surviv, most famous the prai hand . he also continu to make imag in watercolour and bodycolour , includ a number of veri beauti still live of meadow section or anim, includ hi "hare" .

 in earli 1506, he return to venic and stai there until the spring of 1507. by thi time dürer's engrav were veri popular and were be copi. in venic he wa given a valuabl commiss from the emigr german commun for the church of san bartolomeo. thi wa the altar-piec known as the ador of the virgin or the feast of rose garland. it includ portrait of member of venic's german commun, but show a strong italian influenc. later, the emperor rudolf ii took it to pragu. other paint dürer made in venic includ, the virgin and child with the goldfinch, christ disput with the doctor , and a number of smaller work.

dürer wa admir by the venetian, but he wa back in nuremberg by mid-1507. he stai in germani until 1520. hi reput had spread throughout europ. he wa on friendli term with most of the major artist of europ, and exchang draw with raphael.

the year between and hi journei to the netherland ar divid accord to the type of work he made. dure the first five year, 1507–1511, after hi return from venic dürer mostli paint. he made hi four best paint, adam and ev , virgin with the iri , the altarpiec the assumpt of the virgin , and the ador of the triniti by all the saint . dure thi period he also complet the two woodcut seri, the great passion and the life of the virgin.

he complain that paint did not make enough monei, so from 1511 to 1514 he concentr on printmak. the famou work he made in thi period were the thirti-seven woodcut for the littl passion, publish first in 1511, and a set of fifteen small engrav on the same theme in 1512. in 1513 and 1514 he creat hi three most famou engrav, the knight, death, and the devil , melencolia i, and st. jerom in hi studi .

'melencolia i' ha a magic squar which is believ to be the first seen in european art. the two number in the middl of the bottom row give the date of the engrav, 1514.

in 1515, he creat hi woodcut of the rhinocero. the rhinocero wa in lisbon, but durer never saw it. he made it from a sketch and descript from anoth artist. it wa not veri lifelik, but still be us in some german school scienc text-book earli last centuri.. the rhinocero wa from an extinct indian speci.

up to 1520 he produc a wide rang of work, includ portrait in tempera on linen, experi in etch on plate of iron, and part of the triumphal arch and the triumph of maximilian which were huge woodcut project order by maximilian i, holi roman emperor.

in the summer of 1520 dürer made hi fourth and last major journei. 

he want to renew the imperi pension maximilian had given him. maximilian had di in 1519, so the citi of nuremberg stop pai it. dürer also need new patron follow the death of maximilian, and to avoid an outbreak of sick in nuremberg.

he took hi wife and her maid and left nuremberg for the netherland in juli 1520, to be at the coron of the new emperor, charl v. he travel by the rhine to cologn, and then to antwerp, where he made mani draw in silverpoint, chalk, and charcoal. 

dürer went to aachen for the coron, but also made trip to cologn, nijmegen, 's-hertogenbosch, brussel, bruge, ghent, and zeeland. in brussel he saw "the thing which have been sent to the king from the golden land" — the aztec treasur that hernán cortés had sent home to holi roman emperor charl v follow the fall of mexico. dürer wrote that thi treasur trove "wa much more beauti to me than miracl. these thing ar so preciou that thei have been valu at 100,000 florin". dürer appear to have been collect for hi own cabinet of curios, and he sent back to nuremberg variou anim horn, a piec of coral, some larg fish fin, and a wooden weapon from the east indi.

dürer took mani print with him. he wrote in hi diari to whom he gave, exchang, or sold them, and for how much. thi is some of the few time the price of print wa record, so historian think it veri import to show the valu of print compar to paint at that time. dürer return home in juli 1521. he had an unknown ill which stai with him for the rest of hi life, and slow hi rate of work.

back in nuremberg, dürer start work on a seri of religi pictur. there ar mani practic sketch and studi but no big paint from thi time. thi wa partli becaus of hi ill, but more becaus of the time he spent prepar to write book about geometri and perspect, the proport of men and hors, and fortif. 

hi write show that dürer wa highli sympathet to martin luther, and he mai have been influenti in the citi council declar for luther in 1525. howev, he di befor religi divis had harden into differ "cathol" and "protest"church. dürer probabl thought of himself as a reform-mind cathol. 

dürer di in nuremberg at the ag of 56. he left monei and good worth 6,874 florin - a consider sum. hi workshop wa a part of hi larg hous. hi widow live there until her death in 1537. the hous is now a museum.

<titl>alban berg</titl>
alban berg wa an austrian compos. alban berg and anton webern were both pupil of arnold schoenberg. all three compos in their own wai chang the style of music composit in the earli 20th centuri. thei grew up at a time when most compos were still write romant music, but schoenberg and hi pupil start to write aton music and then twelv-tone music in which all 12 note in an octav ar of the same import. although berg wrote a lot of twelv-tone music he still manag to make it sound quit romant at time, more so than schoenberg or webern. hi most import work ar hi two opera wozzeck and lulu and hi violin concerto.

berg wa brought up in the centr of vienna. hi famili had plenti of monei, but when berg’s father di in 1900 life becam much harder for them. he did not do veri well at school. he also had a love affair with a kitchenmaid, with whom he had a daughter.

he wa interest in music, plai the piano and had start to compos, but he had not done well enough in hi school exam to get into the music conservatori. he wa not interest in busi like hi father had been. he got an unpaid job. then, in 1904, he start to studi with schoenberg. thi wa the first time he had been given proper music lesson. two year later, hi mother inherit some monei, and berg wa then abl to give up hi unpaid job and concentr on music.

schoenberg taught him harmoni, counterpoint and music theori, all the thing on need to know to compos well. berg had lesson from him from 1904 until 1911. hi first proper piec includ a piano sonata and a string quartet. here he had alreadi found the modern style which suit him. he wrote harmoni which seem to float. he often wrote piec with sever movement which ar all link by a common theme. he also like theme which ar heard upsid down, or palindrom, where the tune sound the same forward as backward. he met a girl call helen and thei marri in 1910.

berg like to listen to all kind of music. in thi wai he wa differ to schoenberg or webern. berg wa interest in french compos such as debussi, as well as jazz. he like the modern theatr and the polit work of the playwright bertolt brecht and the compos kurt weill. 

berg wa veri grate to schoenberg for all that he had learn from him, but he still continu to be quit afraid of him. schoenberg wrote mani letter to him ask him to do thing for him and often criticis him. onli in the 1920s, when berg had becom well-known, did schoenberg start write to him more like an equal friend.

berg wrote five orchestr piec. it is on of the first import work he wrote without schoenberg’s help. the music ha some modern chord which must have sound veri shock to the viennes audienc. on 31 march 1913 schoenberg conduct a concert in vienna which includ some song by berg. peopl in the audienc start to fight and the polic had to be call. when schoenberg wrote to berg criticis hi music, berg lost all hi self-confid. slowli he start to get more confid again. he wrote three orchestr piec op 6. the music sound quit like mahler. there ar a lot of music idea which grow into on anoth and make a rich sound.

dure world war i berg spent some time in an armi train camp. thi experi must have been in hi mind when he wrote hi opera wozzeck. thi opera becam veri famou. there were a lot of new idea in it. it is not about a great hero, but about a simpl man who is mistreat by peopl. the music, too, is veri differ from opera music up to that time. although it wa so modern it wa a great success and made berg world-famou. it gave him more monei which, togeth with a littl teach, allow him to spend most of hi time compos.

wozzeck ha a littl twelv tone music in it, but in hi next work the twelv tone system is much more import. he wrote lyric suit for string quartet and a kammerkonzert in which the form is made up by mathemat rule. he like to hide thing in hi music e.g. favourit number or letter from peopl’s name. these ar like secret code and, in later year, musician have spent a lot of time try to work out what berg wa try to do.

in 1928 berg start work on hi second and last opera: lulu. he had thought about the opera for mani year. he had seen a plai call die büchse de pandora in 1905. wedekind had plai the part of jack the ripper. peopl thought the plai wa obscen, but it still becam veri popular, especi after 1918 when there wa no more censorship in germani. he work on the opera until 1934. he then stop work on it to write hi violin concerto. when he heard about the sad death from poliomyel of a young girl he knew call manon gropiu, he dedic the concerto to her memori. he wrote: “to the memori of an angel”. manon’s mother, alma, had been the wife of gustav mahler.

soon after he had finish the concerto berg wa stung by an insect. soon he had an abscess and he wa rush to hospit but he di. the violin concerto had not yet been perform. he had not finish lulu. the third act wa onli sketch in short score . when the opera wa first perform, act iii wa just act out in mime while some other music by berg wa plai. berg’s widow helen did not want anyon els to finish the opera, so act iii wa never perform until after helen di in 1976. it wa finish by a man call friedrich cerha and perform in 1977, although a court action had tri to stop it from be perform.

<titl>athanasian creed</titl>
the athanasian creed is a christian statement of faith. it is also often refer to as quicumqu vult . it is the first known creed to talk about triniti. it ha been in us sinc the 6th centuri, mainli in the western part of the church. it is not us veri much todai, the nicen creed ha larg replac it.

from about the 9th centuri peopl thought that st. athanasiu had written it. athanasu live in the 4th centuri in egypt. todai, thi view is larg seen as fals. thi is becaus of the follow:

todai, most peopl think it came from gaul around the year 500. it posit ar similar to those taken by st. ambros of milan, augustin of hippo or vincent of lérin. j.n.d. kelli, a contemporari patrist scholar, believ that st. vincent of lérin wa not it author, but suggest that it mai have come from the same bacground, name the area of lerin in southern gaul. caesariu of arl is on of the possibl author. 

the oldest surviv manuscript of the athanasian creed date from the late 8th centuri.

martin luther said there were three statement of faith, the nicen creed , the te deum , and the athanasian creed. 

it explain triniti, in such a wai to stand against posit such as arian. it ha the filioqu.

<titl>alicant</titl>
alac or alicant is a citi in spain. it is the capit of the provinc of alicant and of the comarca of the alací: it is in the southern part of the valencian commun. it is also a histor mediterranean port. the popul of the citi of alicant proper wa 334,757 inhabit, estim , rank as the second-largest valencian citi. includ nearbi municip, alicant conurb wa popul by 458,843 resid. popul of the metropolitan area wa 795,034 estim. base on popul it is the eighth-largest metropolitan area of spain.

the citi is a sea port and a tourist centr. 

<titl>anthem</titl>
an anthem is a piec of music written for a choir to sing at an anglican church servic. the differ between an anthem and a motet is that an anthem is sung in english. also most anthem ar accompani by an organ.

the word “anthem” ha come to mean “a song of celebr”. thi is why we also talk about nation anthem.

anthem for the church have been compos ever sinc king henri viii argu with the pope and did not want to be roman cathol ani more. he found the english anglican church. church compos were told to write music in english. the word usual come from the bibl. we know that as earli as 1502 the compos fayrfax wa paid 20 shill for compos an anthem. after the reform mani anthem were compos. at first thei were like motet, but in english. soon the english anthem develop differ from the continent motet. two kind of anthem develop: the “full anthem” in which the whole anthem wa sung by the full choir, and the “vers anthem” which wa usual longer and had sever vers which would be sung by soloist, with chorus for the full choir in between.

almost everi music director of cathedr or larg church ha written anthem. a few of the most famou compos of anthem ar:

thoma talli william byrd orlando gibbon henri purcel georg frider handel william boyc samuel sebastian weslei edward bairstow william h.harri herbert howel william mathia john taven john rutter 

<titl>acceler</titl>
acceler is a measur of how fast veloc chang. acceler is the chang of veloc divid by the chang of time. acceler is a vector, and therefor includ both a size and a direct. 

acceler is the rate of chang of the veloc of an object. acceler can be found by us:

sometim the chang in veloc is written as δ. sometim the chang in time is written as δt.

in difficult situat, the acceler can be calcul us mathemat: in calculu, acceler is the deriv of the veloc , .

 acceler ha it own unit of measur. for exampl, if veloc is measur in meter per second, and if time is measur in second, then acceler is measur in meter per second squar . 

 acceler can be posit or neg. when the acceler is neg , it is sometim call deceler. for exampl, when a car brake it deceler. physicist usual onli us the word "acceler". 

 there ar rule for how thing move. these rule ar call "law of motion". isaac newton is the scientist who first wrote down the main law of motion. accord to newton's second law of motion, the forc someth need to acceler an object depend on the object's mass . the formula of newton's second law of motion is , where is the acceler, is the forc, and the mass. thi formula is veri well-known, and it is veri import in physic. newton's second law of motion, in short "newton's second law", is often on of the first thing that physic student learn.

<titl>anton chekhov</titl>
anton pavlovich chekhov wa a russian writer who wrote short stori and plai.

 anton chekhov wa born in taganrog, which is a citi in russia. hi father, pavel, wa the owner of a groceri store. hi mother, yevgeniya, sometim told anton stori about her childhood.

in 1876, chekhov's father went bankrupt. from then on, chekhov's famili wa veri poor. anton chekhov had to pai for hi own educ. he paid for it by tutor other student, catch bird and sell them, and write short stori for newspap. when he had extra monei, he sent it to hi famili. while he wa at school, he read mani book by famou author, for exampl miguel de cervant and arthur schopenhau.

in 1879, chekhov went to moscow univers.

while he wa at moscow univers, chekhov wrote mani short stori to pai for hi school and to help hi famili. in 1886, on of the most famou newspap in russia, new time, ask him to write stori for them. soon, hi stori start to get famou, and other writer read hi work and like it. he wrote a book of stori call at dusk that won the pushkin prize, an award for good write.

in 1887, chekhov wrote a plai call ivanov. chekhov did not like the plai, but critic love it.

in 1890, chekhov went to sakhalin island, a penal coloni . he talk to mani prison and found out that thei were treat veri badli. the prison were often beaten. there were also children there. he wa angri, and wrote about it in a book call the island of salakhin and in a short stori call the murder.

in 1892, he bought a hous and some land near moscow call melikhovo. while he wa there, he help the peopl who live nearbi. he brought them food and cloth, and medicin when thei were sick. sinc he wa train as a doctor, he knew how to take care of them.

while at melikhovo, he start to write a plai call the seagul. when it wa first perform, it went veri badli, and the audienc did not like it. later, it wa perform at anoth theater, the moscow art theater, where the perform went better. soon after thi, he had anoth plai perform, call uncl vanya. he later wrote two more great plai: three sister and the cherri orchard. all four plai ar still often perform todai.

in 1897, he becam sick. doctor told him that he had tuberculosi, a lung diseas, and that he should chang hi life to be healthier. he move to yalta and bought a hous there. later, he marri a woman name olga knipper. at yalta, he wrote some of hi most famou stori, includ a stori call the ladi with the dog.

by 1904, chekhov wa veri sick. he di on the 2nd of juli in germani. thousand of peopl were veri sad when he di. he wa buri in novodevichi cemeteri.

chekhov influenc mani import writer, includ georg bernard shaw, jame joyc, and virginia woolf. hi short stori ar still read by mani peopl around the world.

<titl>apoptosi</titl>
apoptosi is the control death of a cell. apoptosi is us to get rid of cell that ar not need anymor by the bodi. thi is especi import in normal growth. apoptosi is design into the cell's dna and allow the cell to die without caus inflamm. the cell releas enzym that destroi the cell from the insid. after the cell is dead, the left over part ar then remov by other special cell call phagocyt.

 cell can die in two wai, by damag or by program cell death . when a cell di by apoptosi, other cell do not react . when a cell di becaus of damag, the cell's content ar left over and affect nearbi cell. 

 apoptosi is the normal end of a cell's life. at ani point in time there mai be too mani cell in on area and the dna code for apoptosi will activ in some of those cell and thei will die safe. thi is import to the overal function of the organ. if, for exampl, the make of liver cell were to speed up and thei never di, the liver would no longer function properli. the liver cell would eventu take over the organ's bodi.

 cancer cell do not undergo apoptosi and that is why thei ar such a problem. thei continu multipli until the host organ or the organ's bodi cannot function anymor. thi occur becaus the apoptosi code ha mutat and so ha other code. thi caus rapid mitot divis of the unwant cell. thi is a cancer growth. 

<titl>anal sex</titl>
anal sex is a sex act with the anu. thi could be put a finger, dildo, peni, or anoth object in it.

type of anal sex can be: oral stimul of the anu, us finger for stimul and us differ object for stimul. first of all, the anu is a part of the bodi that is tight and cannot lubric itself. thi is why a person should be care when insert someth without damag the wall of thi organ. secondli, the function of the anu is to cast out fece.

for a man, pleasur come from the stimul of prostat that is found near the anu. both men and women can get pleasur becaus the anu ha lot of nerv end.

<titl>aarau</titl>
aarau is the capit of the northern swiss canton of aargau. the citi is also the capit of the district of aarau. most of the peopl in the municip speak german. to the west of aarau is the canton of solothurn. it is the third-largest citi in aargau after wettingen and baden. 

the old citi of aarau li on a rocki cliff where the aar river vallei narrow at the southern foot of the jura mountain. newer part of the citi can be found farther south of the river vallei. the neighbor municip ar küttigen to the north, rohr and buch to the east, suhr to the south-east, unterentfelden to the south, and eppenberg-wöschnau and erlinsbach to the west. aarau and the other municip have merg togeth over the year. the onli except ar unterentfelden and eppenberg-wöschnau to the south, whose place ar divid from aarau by the larg forest of gönhard and zelgli.

a few artifact from the neolith period were found in aarau. near the locat of the present train station, the ruin of a settlement from the bronz ag have been excav. the roman road between salodurum and vindonissa pass through the area, along the rout now cover by the bahnhofstrass. in 1976 diver in the aar found part of a seven-meter wide wooden bridg from the late roman time. aarau wa found around 1240 a.d. by the count of kyburg. the first certain refer to the citi date to 1256. the town wa rule from the "rore" tower, which ha been incorpor into the modern citi hall.

in 1273 the count of kyburg di out. agn of kyburg, who had no male relat, sold the famili's land to king rudolf i von habsburg. he grant aarau it citi right in 1283. in the 14th centuri the citi wa expand in two stage, and a second defes wall wa construct. a deep ditch separ the citi from it "suburb;" it locat is todai mark by a wide street name "graben" .

in 1415 bern invad lower aargau with the help of solothurn. aarau capitul after a short resist, and wa forc to swear allegi to the new ruler. in the 16th centuri, the right of the lower class were abolish. in march 1528 the citizen of aarau allow the introduct of protestant at the urg of the bernes. a growth in popul dure the 16th centuri led to taller build and more dens construct method. earli form of industri develop at thi time; howev, unlik in other citi, no guild were form in aarau.

start in the earli 18th centuri, the textil industri wa establish in aarau. german immigr contribut to the citi's favor condit, in that thei introduc the cotton and silk factori. these highli educ immigr were also respons for educ reform and the enlighten, revolutionari spirit that develop in aarau. on decemb 27, 1797, the last tagsatzung of the old swiss confederaci wa held in aarau. two week later a french envoi continu to foment the revolutionari opinion of the citi. the contrast between a high level of educ and a low level of polit right wa particarli great in aarau, and the citi refus to send troop to defend the bernes border. by mid-march 1798 aarau wa occupi by french troop.

on march 22, 1798 aarau wa declar the capit of the helvet republ. it is therefor the first capit of a unifi switzerland. parliament met in the citi hall. on septemb 20, the capit wa move to lucern. in 1803, napoleon order the fusion of the canton of aargau, baden and fricktal. aarau wa declar the capit of the new, enlarg canton of aargau. in 1820 the citi wall wa torn down, with except of the individu tower and gate, and the defens ditch were fill in.

the wooden bridg, date from the middl ag, across the aar wa destroi by flood three time in thirti year, and wa replac with a steel suspens bridg in 1851. thi wa replac by a concret bridg in 1952. the citi connect to the swiss central railroad in 1856.

the textil industri in aarau broke down in about 1850 becaus of the protectionist tariff polici of neighbor state. other industri had develop by that time to replac it, includ the product of mathemat instrument, shoe and cement. begin in 1900, numer electr enterpris develop. by the 1960s, more citizen work in servic industri or for the canton-level govern than in manufactur. dure the 1980s mani of the industri left aarau complet.

in 1802 the canton school wa establish; it wa the first non-parochi high school in switzerland. it develop a good reput, and wa home to nobel prize winner albert einstein, paul karrer, and werner arber, as well as sever swiss politician and author.

the purchas of a manuscript collect in 1803 laid the foundat for what would becom the canton librari, which contain a bibl annot by huldrych zwingli. more newspap develop in the citi, maintain the revolutionari atmospher of aarau. begin in 1820, aarau ha been a refug for polit refuge.

the urban educ and cultur opportun of aarau have been extend through numer new institut. a theater and concert hall wa construct in 1883, which wa renov and expand in 1995-96. the aargau natur museum open in 1922. a former cloth warehous wa transform into a small theater in 1974, and the altern cultur center kiff wa establish in a former anim fodder factori.

 the earliest us of the place name wa in 1248 , and probabl refer to the settlement in the area befor the found of the citi. it come, along with the name of the river aar , from the german au, mean floodplain.

the histor old citi form an irregular squar, consist of four part . to the south li the "suburb", that is, the part of the town formerli outsid the citi wall. on special characterist of the citi is it paint gabl, for which aarau is sometim call the "citi of beauti gabl".

the build in the old citi origin, on the whole, from build project dure the 16th centuri, when nearli all the middl ag period build were replac or expand. the architectur develop of the citi end in the 18th centuri, when the citi began to expand beyond it wall. most of the build in the "suburb" date from thi time.

the "schlössli" , rore tower and the upper gate tower have remain nearli unchang sinc the 13th centuri. the "schlössli" is the oldest build in the citi. it wa alreadi found at the time of the establish of the citi shortli after 1200; the exact date is not known. citi hall wa built around rore tower in 1515.

the upper gate tower stand besid the southern gate in the citi wall, along the road to lucern and bern. the jail ha been hous in it sinc the middl ag. a carillon wa erect in the tower in the middl of the 20th centuri, the bell for which were provid by the centuri-old bell manufactur of aarau.

the town church wa built between 1471 and 1478. dure the reform, in 1528, it twelv altar and accompani pictur were destroi. the "justic fountain" wa built in 1634, and is made of french limeston; it includ a statu of ladi justic made of sandston, henc the name. it wa origin in the street in front of citi hall, but wa move to it present locat in front of the town church in 1905 due to increas traffic.

 the peopl that give the most job in aarau is the canton govern; most of their offic can be found throughout the citi. 

on of the two head offic of the aargauer zeitung, switzerland's fifth largest newspap, can be found in aarau.

kern & co., found in 1819, wa an internation known geodet instrument manufactur base in aarau. howev, it wa taken over by wild leitz in 1988, and wa close in 1991.

more than half of the worker in aarau live in the citi's suburb, or on the outskirt of the citi. aarau get some jam of car and buse sometim dure rush hour .

thing made in aarau ar: bell, mathemat instrument, electr good, cotton textil, chemic, shoe, and other product.

<titl>aargau</titl>
 is on of the more northerli canton of switzerland. it is locat around the lower cours of the river aar, which is why the canton is call aargau . the canton of basel landschaft, solothurn and bern lie to the west. lucern is to the south zug and zürich ar to the east. to the north is germani. about 580.000 peopl live in the canton. it capit is aarau.

<titl>arc de triomph</titl>
the arc de triomph, in the end of the champ-eliées, is a veri famou monument in pari.

it wa commiss in 1806 after the victori at austerlitz by emperor napoléon bonapart. it is a larg arc, and even though it mai be thought by some peopl that you can drive underneath it, you cannot. it wa design by jean-francoi chalgrin and ha roughli 300 step!

<titl>auroch</titl>
 the auroch, or uru, wa a larg speci of cattl, onc common in europ but now extinct. it wa a wild anim, not a domest anim. the extinct auroch/uru is a complet separ speci from the wisent .

accord to the paleontologisk museum, univers of oslo, auroch develop in india some two million year ago, came into the middl east and farther into asia, and reach europ about 250,000 year ago. thei were onc thought a differ speci from modern european cattl , but todai not ani more. 

modern cattl have becom much smaller than their wild ancestor: the height of a larg domest cow is about 1.5 meter , while auroch were about 1.75 meter . 

auroch also had sever featur not often seen in modern cattl, such as lyre-shape horn set at a forward angl, a pale stripe down the spine, and differ color accord to the gender. male were black with a pale stripe down the spine, while femal and calv were reddish . auroch were also known to have veri aggress behaviour, and kill on wa seen as an act of courag in ancient cultur.

 at on time there were three auroch subspeci, name bo primigeniu namadicu that occur in india, the bo primigeniu mauretanicu from north africa and the bo primigeniu primigeniu from europ and the middl east. onli the european subspeci surviv until recent time.

<titl>asynchron transfer mode</titl>
asynchron transfer mode is a set of protocol us for comput network. it is mostli us for wide area network. it split the data, and encod it into packet of a fix size. each packet can be rout differ, along virtual path set up in the network. 

atm ha been veri success in wan,as well as in lan. todai, mani adsl implerment us atm technolog.

standard like ethernet usual ar quit simpl. when there is littl traffic on the network thei work well. howev, when there is a lot of traffic it is difficult to predict how an ethernet network will behav. for thi reason, ethernet cannot give ani servic guarante. it is not possibl to sai that an ethernet packet will take a maximum delai, but after that time it is guarante to arriv.

atm is more complex, but thi complex allow to give guarante as to data rate, maximum delai, and jitter. these ar usual call qualiti of servic. 

<titl>anu</titl>
the anu is the hole in the human bodi that is between the buttock. it is at the end of the gastrointestin system , where wast come out of the bodi. 

<titl>artilleri</titl>
artilleri is a word for big gun us in an armi, for exampl cannon and howitz.

such gun ar us to shoot target far awai. artilleri is often us to deni area to enemi troop, to bombard trench and build with enemi in it and to support unit.

there ar mani differ weapon that ar call artilleri. thei mai shoot shell or missil. newer system can even drop mine over a big area, make the area uncross. there is also artilleri that fight plane and other aircraft.

in most case, artilleri need other unit to see for it, becaus it often shoot in high angl and over terrain. thei do not have to see the enemi to damag them.

<titl>aswan</titl>
aswan is a citi in the south of egypt and the capit of the aswan governor. it is on the east bank of the nile and is a busi market and tourist center.

aswan is on of the driest place in the world where peopl actual live; as of earli 2001, the last rain there wa 6 year earlier. as of octob 13, 2007, the last rainfal wa a thunderstorm on mai 13, 2006. in nubian settlement, the peopl often do not put a roof over all of the room in their hous.

<titl>agostino carracci</titl>
agostino carracci wa an italian painter and printmak. hi brother annibal and cousin of lodovico carracci were more famou than he wa. 

he thought natur wa an ideal. he found a school that wa compet with that of caravaggio. togeth with hi brother, he found the accademia degli incamminati. the academia help painter of the school of bologna to becom famou.

<titl>agent orang</titl>
agent orang is a veri power herbicid that wa us in the vietnam war. it is a defoli that destroi forest. it wa us by the unit state militari so their enemi had no place to hide.

 the problem with agent orang is that when it is releas, some dioxin ar also gener. dioxin can caus cancer. thei can also lead to genet modif. 

<titl>ab urb condita</titl>
ab urb condita is a wai to measur time. 

 the phrase is latin. it liter mean from when the citi wa found. the citi talk about is the citi of rome. thi wai of measur time wa not us in classic antiqu. the first to have us it wa the historian orosiu, about 400 ad.

 marcu terentiu varro found out that the citi of rome wa found 440 year after the fall of troja. romulu and remu found it. varro thought that wa in the spring of 753 bc. 

marcu porciu cato censoriu thought that rome wa found on year after the 7th olymp game. that would have been in 752 bc.

 ab urb condita is also the main work of titu liviu, a roman historian.

<titl>arthur phillip</titl>
admir arthur phillip rn wa a british naval offic. phillip wa made governor of new south wale, the first european coloni in australia, and wa the founder of the site which is now the citi of sydnei.

 arthur phillip wa born in fulham, london, in 1738. hi father wa a german-born languag teacher, jacob phillip. hi mother, elizabeth breach, wa english, and the widow of a navi captain. phillip went to a school for poor boi at the greenwich hospit. at the ag of 13 he join the merchant navi. phillip join the royal navi at 15. he saw action dure the seven year' war in the mediterranean at the battl of minorca in 1756. in 1762 he wa promot to lieuten. when the war end in 1763 he wa put on half pai. he marri and becam a farmer in lyndhurst, hampshir. he separ from hi wife about 6 year later.

in 1774 phillip join the portugues navi as a captain. he serv in the spanish-portugues war, 1776–1777. phillip took a group of convict ship from portug to brazil. thi trip wa a success becaus not mani peopl di. thi mai have been the reason phillip wa ask to lead the expedit to sydnei. in 1778 england wa at war again, and phillip wa recal to activ servic. in 1779 he wa given hi first command, the ship basilisk. he wa promot to captain in 1781, and given command of the ariadn. in 1782 he wa captain of the europ with hi friend philip gidlei king as hi lieuten. thei sail to india. in 1784 he wa back on half pai in england. he spent time in southern franc and in 1786 wa do survei work for the royal navi.

 in octob 1786, phillip wa made the new governor of new south wale. the british govern want to start a penal coloni on the east coast of australia. phillip knew about farm, and had taken prison to brazil for the portugues. thi made him a good choic to be leader. phillip had a veri hard time get the ship readi for the eight month sea voyag to australia. he had to take everyth that the new coloni might need. phillip had no real idea of what he might find when he got there. there wasn't much monei to bui thing. he want peopl who knew about farm, build and make thing, but thi wa reject. most of the 772 convict were thiev from the citi area of london. phillip also took a group of marin and small group of offic who were to help him run the new coloni.

the first fleet, of 11 ship, sail on 13 mai 1787. the first ship, hm suppli, reach botani bai on 18 januari 1788. phillip soon decid that thi site, pick by sir joseph bank, wa not suitabl. it had poor soil, no safe place to leav the ship, and no drink water. phillip decid to go north to port jackson. on 26 januari 1788 thi dai is now call australia dai the marin and convict land at sydnei cove. it wa a success trip, as onli 40 convict had di. phillip name sydnei after lord sydnei.

the first year of the settlement were veri hard. thei onli had the suppli thei brought with them. thei had to start grow their own food, but the soil around sydnei wa poor. thei didn't know about the climat, how much rain or when it would fall for exampl. veri few of the convict knew anyth about farm or grow food. thei did not have enough farm tool. the convict did not want to be farm worker. the coloni wa in danger of starvat for long time. the soldier, who didn't like be given order in mani case, did not think it wa their job to make the convict work. phillip had to put some convict in charg to get the other convict work. thi wa the start of the process of make some convict free which led to the reform of lachlan macquari after 1811. as governor of the new settlement, phillip had complet power over the eastern half of australia.

phillip had respect from the aborigin peopl becaus he wa miss a front tooth. thi tooth wa the same tooth that thei knock out as part of their initi ceremoni.

phillip soon had problem with the soldier in the penal coloni. life in sydnei wa difficult, without proper hous and not enough food. the offic in charg of the soldier, major robert ross, want to give up the settlement and go back to england. ross complain about phillip and wrote letter to the govern in england about him. the soldier thought thei should be given land and other benefit. thei thought thei should be given more food than the convict, but phillip believ everyon should have an equal share. ross and the soldier believ that thei were in australia to protect the settlement from be attack by other countri. thei did not think that their work includ guard the convict. ross who wa a soldier, did not htink he should have to take order from phillip, who wa a navi man. in march 1790, phillip final sent ross to be in charg of the coloni on norfolk island. the british govern continu to send out convict, there were over 4000 in sydnei by 1792. food still need to be brought in as the coloni could not yet grow enough. phillip began give small grant of land to ex-convict to start farm around parramatta, new south wale.

 on 11 decemb 1792 phillip left to go back to england. he need medic treatment for a pain in hi side. the pain wa kidnei pain from eat so much salt food. he plan to return to australia, but on medic advic he resign as governor and stai in england. he marri isabella whitehead in 1794. he eventu got better and in 1796 return to the navi as a captain. he wa in charg of the alexand, and later the 74 gun battleship, swiftshor. in januari 1799 he wa made a rear admir of the blue, and put in charg of the sea fencibl. their job wa to defend england against napoleon. he retir from activ servic in 1805. he had a number of stroke which left him partli paralys. he di at bath, on 31 august 1814, after fall from a third floor window. he wa buri at the church of st.nichola, bathampton.

in 2007 geoffrei robertson qc found that phillip's remain ar no longer in the church. it is not known where thei ar. it is believ thei were lost while the church wa be repair in the 1970's. robertson believ that it is a insult to phillip that he wasn't buri in on of england's cathedr. he want the remain of phillip found and brought back to australia.

<titl>angu</titl>
angu is a counti on the north sea and on the northern shore of the firth of tai in in the unit kingdom .

angu is also the name of a council area.

the counti town of angu is forfar, but it largest town is dunde. dunde is not part of the council area but is a council area on it own.

<titl>andré the giant</titl>
andré rené roussimoff wa a profession wrestler that wrestl for the wwf. he wa a on time wwf champion, on time wwf tag team champion and the first inducte into the wwe hall of fame in 1993. he wa 7'4 which earn him the nicknam the eighth wonder of the world.

<titl>adrastea (moon)</titl>
adrastea or , is the second closest moon to jupit. it wa found by david c. jewitt and g. edward danielson in voyag 2 probe photograph taken in 1979 and receiv the design . in 1983, it wa name after the mytholog adrastea, who wa a daughter of jupit and anank. 

adrastea wa the first moon to be found from imag taken by an interplanetari spacecraft, rather than through telescop photographi.

 adrastea is non-spheric and measur 20x16x14 km³ across. what adrastea is made of and the mass of adrastea ar not known, but assum that it mean densiti is like that of amalthea it mass can be estim at ~2×1015 kg. amalthea's densiti impli that that moon is compos of water ic with a poros of 10-15%, and adrastea mai be similar.

no surfac detail of adrastea ar known, due to the low resolut of avail imag.

 adrastea is the smallest and second closest member of the closer moon to jupit. it orbit jupit at ~129,000 km within the planet's main ring. the orbit ha veri small eccentr ~0.0015 and inclin ~ 0.03° rel to the equat of jupit.

 adrastea wa found in voyag 1 and 2 imag, but appear onli as a dot. the galileo spacecraft wa abl to see it shape, but the imag remain poor.

<titl>apach http server</titl>
apach http server, also call apach, is a web server notabl for help the growth of the world wide web.

<titl>account</titl>
account or account is the profess that deal with a compani's monei, book and record. account ar person who perform the account work, and also carri out the audit or check of a compani's book and record. in britain, thi audit is often carri out by a charter account. 

when account perform account work, thei write in the book of account that belong to a compani. everi time monei is spent or earn, it is written in the ledger. the inform found in the ledger is mostli us by lender, manag, investor, tax author , and other decis maker. these peopl look at the ledger and make decis about how to spend monei in the futur.

 the english word account come from the word accompt. accompt come from the french word compter. the french word compter come from the latin word computar. even though the letter 'p' is in both of these word, a person cannot hear it when speak aloud. 

the english spell for the word account come from the sound of the word accompt. becaus the 'p' is silent, both of these word sound similar. the word account come from the word account.

 account is veri old. it start when human first start to farm and form town and citi. peopl who thought about econom thought of a wai to write down the size and valu of crop. 

simpl account is found in the christian bibl in the book of matthew, in the parabl of the talent. simpl account is also found in the islam quran.

in the twelfth-centuri a.d., the arab writer, ibn taymiyyah, wrote a book call hisba. thi book ha detail about account system that were us by muslim befor the mid-seventh centuri a.d. muslim account wa influenc by roman and persian. in hi book, ibn taymiyyah give detail of a complex government account system. 

luca pacioli , also known as friar luca dal borgo, is said to be the person who gave "birth" to account. he wrote a textbook in latin call summa de arithmetica, geometrica, proportioni et proportionalita . thi textbook wa us in the abbaco school that ar found in northern itali. son of merchant and craftsmen were taught in these school. thi textbook wa written about math. it ha the first print descript of how merchant from venic kept their account. merchant from venic us a system call the doubl-entri bookkeep system. 

doubl-entri bookkeep is where there is a debit and credit entri for everi transact. 

pocioli wrote down thi system but he did not invent it, but he is still call the "father of account". the system he wrote had most of the account cycl as it is known todai. he wrote about us journal and ledger, and warn that a person should not got to sleep at night until the debit were the same as the credit. hi ledger had account for asset , liabil , capit , incom and expens. he show how to write year-end close entri and suggest that a trial balanc be us to prove that a ledger is balanc. hi treatis in the book also ha info about other topic, such as account ethic and cost account.

 the first book written in the english languag on account wa publish in london, england by john goug in 1543.

in 1588 john melli from southwark, england wrote a short book of instruct for keep account.

there wa anoth book written in 1635 that wa describ as the merchant mirrour, or direct for the perfect order and keep of hi account form by wai of debitor and creditor. thi book wa written by richard dafforn, who wa an account. thi book ha mani refer to book about account that were written much earlier. on chapter of thi book is titl "opinion of book-keep's antiqu". in thi chapter the author sai that, accord to anoth author, the bookkeep he wrote about wa us two-hundr year earlier in venic.

anoth writer from the netherland wrote that doubl-entri bookkeep wa done by the greek.

there were sever edit of richard dafforn's book. the second edit wa publish in 1636. the third edit wa publish in 1656. anoth edit wa publish in 1684. the book is veri complet in how it describ scientif account. it contain a lot of detail and explan. the scienc that support account wa like by mani peopl in the seventeenth centuri. thi is support by the fact that there were so mani edit. start at thi point in histori, there have been mani book written about account. mani author claim to be profession account and teacher of account. becaus of thi, it show that there were profession account who were emploi in the seventeenth centuri.

a financi audit is where an intern audit and an extern audit ar done. for an extern audit, an independ auditor take a look at financi statement and account record. by look at these record, the auditor can find out if these record ar true, fair and follow gener accept account principl , or intern financi report standard . intern audit try to get info for manag usag, and is done by employe.

<titl>ant</titl>
an ant is a small speci of insect that live in veri larg group. each group is call a "coloni". on ant coloni mai have a few dozen of ant to thousand of ant. in larg place, ant coloni mai have million of ant. 

a coloni ha a femal ant, call a "queen", who lai egg. those egg will hatch into worker ant. larger coloni of ant have million of ant mostli have femal ant make group of "worker", "soldier", or other special group. almost all ant coloni also have some fertil male ant call "drone".

ant have coloni almost everywher on planet earth. place that do not have ant ar antarctica and certain far awai place or island hard to live at.

ant ar usual small, but can carri the weight of twenti ant. usual, worker ant will carri food back to the coloni so that the other ant and the queen can eat.

mani human cultur us ant in cuisin, medic and ritual.

<titl>adwar</titl>
adwar is an advertis comput program that can be instal by other peopl on someon's comput, sometim without their permiss. it is a controversi topic becaus sometim busi compani put the program there so thei can see what peopl ar do or what web page thei ar brows. thei then put an advertis that is of the same subject as the web-page the person is look at. thi can be good if the person is try to bui someth, but mani peopl do not want advertis pop up or banner. mani peopl also do not want other peopl to find out what thei ar do or what web page thei ar look at. an exampl is in the popular peer to peer file share program, kazaa. when someon download the offici releas, it instal adwar on their comput that then send advertis to the comput. some peopl do not like thi so thei us an illeg modifi version of thi program call kazaa lite.

 remov tool have been develop to assist user in clear out these unwant program. like mani program that peopl us for secur, the program must be updat often. updat allow the remov tool to recogn new type of adwar. thi can be done by download file over the internet us the 'updat' option in the program.

<titl>ajaccio</titl>
ajaccio , pronounc "ah-yah-cho", is a town of franc. it is the capit of the territori collect of corsica and the prefectur of the depart of cors-du-sud.

 ajaccio li on the west coast of the island of corsica in a shelter posit at the foot of wood hill on the northern shore of the gulf of ajaccio. the harbour li to the east of the town and is protect on the south by a peninsula.

<titl>antacid</titl>
antacid ar us to help stop indigest. you mai get indigest if you have eaten too much or if you have eaten too fast. if you have indigest the liquid in your stomach will becom more acid. 

the reaction that is happen is call neutralis. thi is becaus the tablet ar alkalin and the liquid in your stomach ar acid.

<titl>ami grant</titl>
ami lee grant is an american singer. she is known for her christian pop music. she releas her first album in 1977 at the ag of 16.

<titl>aberdour</titl>
aberdour is a town in fife, scotland. it is locat between dalgeti bai and burntisland.

<titl>aberfoyl, stirl</titl>
aberfoyl is a villag in scotland. it is locat in the stirl council area.

<titl>ander celsiu</titl>
ander celsiu wa a swedish astronom. celsiu wa born in uppsala in sweden. he develop the celsiu temperatur scale as the intern temperatur standard when he work on meteorolog . on of hi good friend gabriel fahrenheit invent the fahrenheit scale for the thermomet. 

<titl>april 25</titl>
 is the 115th dai of the year in the gregorian calendar . there ar 250 dai until the end of the year.

<titl>andalusia</titl>
andalusia or andalucía, in southern spain, is on of 17 region of spain call autonom commun of spain. it is the first in popul among the autonom commun and the second in area. with 7,975,672 peopl and eight provinc it is a well-known region in europ. the capit is sevil, with 705,000 inhabit and 1,350,000 in the metropolitan area. anoth big citi is malaga, with 560,000 inhabit and 1,075,000 in the metropolitan area. other famou andalusian citi ar cordoba, granada, almeria, cadiz, jaen, huelva, jerez, and marbella. the most import river is the guadalquivir and the highest mountain in andalusia and in the iberian peninsula is the mulhacen

the name andalusia is the modern version of the name al-andalu which goe back to the middl ag. dure that period, northern iberian peninsula wa control by christian king and the southern iberian peninsula wa control by muslim. in 711 ce, the muslim invad the iberian peninsula, then control by christian of visigoth origin. by 719 the muslim conquer all of the peninsula except for a small area in the northern pyrene mountain. the muslim us the name al-andalu for all of the territori of the iberian peninsula under their control. christian in the north wage war for more than seven centuri against the muslim, gradual take over more and more of the southern area. thi process of war is call the reconquista, spanish for reconquest. in the year 1492, king ferdinand and queen isabella of spain retook the last stronghold in the southern area at granada. in that same year, the muslim and jew were forc to leav spain.

the andalusian ar the inhabit of andalusia of the southern region in iberia peninsula. thei ar gener consid an ethnic distinct peopl becaus of the two of the most import marker of distinct: their own languag and an awar of a presum common origin. andalusian is said to be a distinct dialect of spanish, although it is debat, accord to the nationalist. the andalusian have a rich cultur which includ the famou flamenco style of music and danc, even though it wa adopt by the spanish gypsi who have chang it and monopol into their own cultur. 

<titl>azad kashmir</titl>
the state of azad jammu and kashmir, also call azad kashmir is part of the disput region of kashmir. it is under pakistani administr, but is claim by india as part of it state of jammu and kashmir. togeth with gilgit baltistan it make up pakistan-administ kashmir.  gilgit baltistan li to the north, the indian state of jammu and kashmir is to the east. the north-west frontier provinc is west of it, and the pakistani provinc of punjab li south of it.

the capit citi of azad kashmir is muzaffarabad. azad jammu and kashmir ha an area of 5,134 mi² . the inhabit of thi region ar kashmiri muslim. about 4 million peopl live there.

pakistan and the kashmiri refer to jammu and kashmir as indian occupi kashmir .

azad kashmir is a self-govern state under pakistani control but is not constitution part of pakistan. it ha it own elect presid, prime minist, legislatur, high court, and offici flag. howev, the highest bodi in the state is the azad jammu and kashmir council which compris six member from the govern of azad kashmir and five member from the govern of pakistan, includ the presid of pakistan who is the chairman/chief execut of the council.. azad kashmir is administr divid into three divis which, in turn, ar divid into ten district.

<titl>arabian sea</titl>
the arabian sea is a sea between arabian peninsula and the indian peninsula. it cover around 4,600,000, km. the arabian sea on of the warmest sea. 

<titl>aspartam</titl>
aspartam is an artifici sweeten, that wa discov in 1965, by jame m. schlatter. it can be us to replac some kind of sugar. it is not base on saccharid, like saccharin. 

<titl>asexu reproduct</titl>
asexu reproduct is reproduct without sex. it is a form of reproduct, where onli on parent is need to make an ident copi of itself. the main process of asexu reproduct is mitosi. thi type of reproduct is common among some singl-cell organ, for exampl, an amoeba. mani plant also reproduc asexu. 

some organ like bacteria reproduc us binari fission. thei split in two, so on bacterium becom two bacteria. thi alwai lead to daughter cell, and the offspr will alwai be ident to the parent.

bud is similar to binari fission, but it is us by plant and some anim, which cannot simpli split in half as bacteria can. it is when a small part of a plant or anim break off and then, while thei ar separ from their "mother", thei start to grow until both the "parent" and the "offspr" ar the same size and both ar capabl of bud again. thi mai happen mani more time.

 fungi produc spore, which mai be asexu or sexual. the asexu spore have the genet materi insid, which allow them to make a whole new organ ident to it parent. 

conidia ar asexu, non-motil spore of a fungu; thei ar also call mitospor due to the wai thei ar gener through the cellular process of mitosi. thei ar haploid cell genet ident to the haploid parent, can develop into a new organ if condit ar favor, and serv in dispers.

asexu reproduct in ascomycet is by the format of conidia, which ar bourn on special stalk call conidiophor. the morpholog of these special conidiophor is often distinct of a specif speci and can therefor be us in identif of the speci.

<titl>alken</titl>
alken ar a group of hydrocarbon. thei have the gener formula cnh2n. all alken have a carbon to carbon doubl bond. the doubl bond in the middl make them more reactiv becaus the molecul is not satur. an alken's unsatur mean that it will turn bromin colourless. the name of alken alwai end with -en.

<titl>abiword</titl>
abiword is a free word processor that can be download for free, it is open sourc and is much smaller in size than a proprietari altern, microsoft word. it is avail for freebsd, linux, microsoft window, mac os x, and qnx. it mascot is abi the ant. it is much smaller than mani other commerci word-processor of it time, onli us about 15mb on a comput's hard drive under microsoft window. it is easi to us.

<titl>air condition</titl>
an air condition is a system, or machin that remov heat from an area us a cycl in which heat is move out of the area where it is hot. 

in construct, a complet system of heat, ventil, and air condit is refer to as hvac. it purpos, in the home or in the car, is to provid comfort dure hot dai and night. 

the 19th centuri british scientist and inventor michael faradai discov that compress and liquefi ammonia could chill air when the liquefi ammonia wa allow to evapor. 

in 1842, philippin physician dr. john gorri us compressor technolog to creat ic, which he us to cool air for hi patient. he hope eventu to us hi ic-make machin to regul the temperatur of build. he even thought of central air condit that could cool entir citi. 

 air condit engin broadli divid air condit applic into comfort and process. 

comfort applic aim to provid an indoor environ that remain rel constant in a rang prefer by human despit chang in extern weather condit or in intern heat load. 

process applic aim to provid a suitabl environ for a process be carri out, regardless of intern heat load and extern weather condit. although often in the comfort rang, it is the need of the process that determin condit, not human prefer. process applic includ:

in both comfort and process applic not onli is the object to control temperatur but other factor includ humid, air movement and air qualiti.

in the refriger cycl, a heat pump transfer heat from a lower temperatur heat sourc into a higher temperatur heat sink. heat would natur flow in the opposit direct. thi is the most common type of air condit. a refriger work in much the same wai, as it pump the heat out of the interior into the room in which it stand.

thi cycl take advantag of the univers ga law pv = nrt, where p is pressur, v is volum, r is the univers ga constant, t is temperatur, and n is the number of mole of ga .

the most common refriger cycl us an electr motor to drive a compressor. in an automobil the compressor is driven by a pullei on the engin's crankshaft, with both us electr motor for air circul. sinc evapor occur when heat is absorb, and condens occur when heat is releas, air condition ar design to us a compressor to caus pressur chang between two compart, and activ pump a refriger around. a refriger is pump into the cool compart , where the low pressur caus the refriger to evapor into a vapor, take heat with it. in the other compart , the refriger vapour is compress and forc through anoth heat exchang coil, condens into a liquid, reject the heat previous absorb from the cool space.

air condit ha no greater influenc on health than heatingthat is to sai, veri littlealthough poorli maintain air-condit system can occasion promot the growth and spread of microorgan, such as legionella pneumophila, the infecti agent respons for legionnair's diseas. air condit can have a posit effect on suffer of allergi and asthma.

in seriou heat wave, air condit can save the live of the elderli. some local author even set up public cool center for the benefit of those without air condit at home.

<titl>atari 2600</titl>
atari 2600 is a video game consol which wa releas in the unit state in octob 1977. the video game wa sold over 30 million time. at that time nine game were avail. the game that wa most popular wa pac-man which wa sold 7 million time.

in the begin the price of an atari 2600 wa $199 but the price drop fast. 

in 1986, a more cheap version of the atari 2600 becam avail: the jr. atari. thi on cost $50. the onli differ were the look.

<titl>atari 5200</titl>
the atari 5200 supersystem, or simpli the atari 5200, wa a video game consol which came out in 1982. it wa made by atari inc. and wa suppos to replac the popular atari 2600. atari want the 5200 to compet with the intellivis, but it compet more close with the colecovis. 

the 5200 wa base on atari inc.'s 400/800 comput. even though the intern hardwar wa almost ident, the softwar wa not. design mistak meant that the 5200 had problem with it us. these problem made it a poor seller.

 the game's atari 400-base design made for a design which atari inc. could quickli build and sell. 

while it wa be design, the atari 5200 call the "atari video system x - advanc video comput system." atari protect the design with a codenam, "pam," after a femal employe at atari. a rumor said that "pam" or "pam" actual stood for "person arcad machin." thi wa becaus most game for the system were base on exist arcad game. actual work atari video system x machin, whose hardwar is 100% ident to the atari 5200 do exist, but thei ar extrem rare. 

the first 1982 releas had four control port, where nearli all other system of the dai had onli two. the 5200 also featur a veri special new control with an analog joystick, numer keypad, two fire button on both side of the control and game function kei for start, paus, and reset. anoth special thing wa the first automat tv switchbox. older game system which attach to a televis's antenna lead requir the user to slide a switch on the adapt by hand. thi rf box wa also where the game's power suppli connect in a uniqu dual power/televis signal setup similar to the rca studio ii's. a singl cabl come out of the 5200 plug into the switch box and wa us for both electr and the televis signal.

the 1983 version of the atari 5200 ha two control port instead of four. atari chang back to the a simpler separ power suppli and manual rf switch. it also had chang in the cartridg port to allow for the atari 2600 adapt releas that year. while the adapt wa onli made to work on the two-port version, modif can be made to the four-port to make it compat. in fact, toward the end of the four-port model's product run, there were a limit number of consol produc which includ these modif. these consol can be identifi by an asterisk in their serial number.

 the prototyp us to design the control's electr system us a so-call "yoke and gimbal" taken from a radio control system us to fly model airplan. thi simpl design gave veri nice control and wa highli reliabl. the actual control sold with the game were quit differ and a great disappoint to the develop team. the design of the analog joystick, which us a weak rubber boot rather than spring to center the stick, prove to be hard to us and unreli. anoth major flaw of the control wa that the design did not provid smooth control through the travel of the stick. thi made control game awkward. the control did, howev, includ a paus button. thi wa a novelti at the time, but would becom standard on almost all futur game system. replac joystick were also releas by other manufactur.

atari inc. releas the pro-line trak-ball control for the system, which wa us for titl such as centiped or defend. a paddl control and an updat self-center version of the origin control were also be work on, but never made it to market.

the control wa rank the 10th worst video game control by ign editor craig harri.

 although the atari 5200's insid were veri much like that of the 400/800 home comput, the differ were enough so that game design for on would not run directli on the other.

on of the most obviou differ wa the 5200's lack of a keyboard. howev, there were sever other:

atari corp.'s later xe game system revisit the idea of a consol base on the 400/800 hardwar. howev, as thi wa essenti just a 65xe comput with a keyboard which could be remov, it wa abl to run most of the home comput titl directli.

the atari 5200 could not run softwar for the still-popular atari 2600. an adapt wa later releas in 1983 allow it to plai all atari 2600 game, us the more reliabl control from the 2600. 

anoth problem wa the lack of attent that atari inc. gave to the consol; most of it attent went to the older atari 2600. it face an uphil battl compet with the colecovis's head start and a video game market which wa begin to fade.

at on point, atari inc. plan on develop a smaller, less expens version of the atari 5200 which would have gotten rid of the control storag bin. code-name the "atari 5100" , onli a few fulli-work prototyp atari 5100s were made befor the project wa cancel.

on mai 21, 1984, dure a press confer at which the atari 7800 wa introduc, compani execut reveal that the 5200 had been discontinu. total sale of the 5200 were reportedli in excess of 1 million unit.

note: these descript ar veri technic. thei ar meant to be understood by peopl with lot of comput experi.

<titl>atari jaguar</titl>
the atari jaguar wa a consol releac by atari in 1993. it prove to be a commerci failur and wa atari's last consol. it also had a cd base accessorri made for it call a atari jaguar cd.

<titl>ahimsa</titl>
ahimsa is a word us in hinduism. the mean of ahimsa is ‘non-injuri”. the practic of ahimsa is now an import aspect of hinduism, jainism and buddhism. a person who practic ahimsa gener eat vegetarian food. a religi person who practic ahimsa doe not take part in anim sacrific.

in modern ag, mohanda karamchand gandhi and martin luther king each follow a path of ahimsa, though in differ wai. thei struggl without fight, while ask for the right of their follow.

<titl>andrei sakharov</titl>
andrei dmitrievich sakharov , wa a soviet nuclear physicist. he wa also a well-known dissid and human right activist. sakharov wa an advoc of civil liberti and reform in the soviet union.

sakharov wa a veri clever scientist. he graduat from colleg dure world war ii but wa kept out of the armi to do scientif research for the govern. sakharov help the soviet develop the hydrogen bomb in the 1950s. but he also made mani peac us of nuclear power.

the bomb he had help make start sakharov to be a dissid. he argu with khrushchev against nuclear test that were not need. he wa afraid that these test put peopl's live and health in danger without need. he began ask, too, for more freedom of speech. the govern remov him from hi secret work and as hi special job as a scientist. sakharov began to see what unhappi live most soviet citizen led.

persecut onli made him speak out more. he ask for more religi liberti and defend other who had spoken out and been put into jail. the secret polic began to watch him and to make file of inform against him. after sakharov critic activ of the ussr's arab alli, arab terrorist came to hi apart and held him, hi wife, and hi stepson hostag for an hour. "do you want to kill us?" cri sakharov's wife. "we can do wors thing than kill you," thei repli. after the terrorist left without do anyth, sakharov tri to tell the polic about it. the polic did not realli care.

the onli thing that protect sakharov wa mani peopl knew about him outsid the soviet union. the communist were afraid that if someth happen to him, it would get a bad imag of the ussr. but when sakharov critic the soviet invad of afghanistan in 1979, thei becam veri angri and took him to the citi of gorki. there he wa watch by the polic outsid hi apart. he tri to go on a hunger strike, not eat anyth. the soviet union wa afraid he might die, so thei forc-fed him .

sakharov kept on ask for glasnost . in 1986, mikhail gorbachev, who agre with sakharov and thought there should be glasnost, let the dissid scientist return home. sakharov continu to call for reform, and on decemb 12, 1989, he publicli demand an end of commun. two dai later he di. but two year later hi demand becam true as the communist govern end.

<titl>astrobiolog</titl>
astrobiolog is the studi of life in outer space. the field of astrobiolog look for condit necessari for life, like liquid water, a good temperatur, or the presenc of oxygen.

two possibl place to find life in the solar system ar europa, a moon of jupit and titan, a moon of saturn. these place mai have liquid water. howev, thei mai be too cold to support life.

<titl>air show</titl>
an air show is an event at which aviat displai their fly skill and the capabl of their aircraft to spectat in aerobat. air show without aerobat displai, have onli aircraft displai park on the ground, ar call "static air show".

<titl>anthrop principl</titl>
the anthrop principl is a principl that sai that the univers is how it is becaus it must allow for the eventu creation of us, as observ. the anthrop principl wa thought of in 1974, by the astronom brandon carter.

there ar two differ kind of anthrop principl: the weak anthrop principl, and the strong anthrop principl.

weak anthrop principl: "we must be prepar to take into account the fact that our locat in the univers is necessarili privileg to the extent of be compat with our exist as observ."

strong anthrop principl: "the univers must be such as to admit the creation of observ within it at some stage." 

<titl>akihabara</titl>
akihabara is a district of tokyo, famou for electr item and anim.

<titl>aragones languag</titl>
the aragones languag is spoken in the north of aragon. the aragones is similar to other near languag: spanish languag, catalan and occitan. also there ar a lot of word in aragones similar to basqu word. about 10,000 peopl speak aragones. aragones is a romanc languag.

<titl>aerodynam</titl>
aerodynam mean studi how air travel around someth move through it, and reduc how much drag is caus. streamlin is on of the major field in aerodynam. aerodynam ar us to reduc drag in vehicl. 

aerodynam come from aero , and dynam .

<titl>antideriv</titl>
antidifferenti is a part of mathemat. it is the opposit of differenti. antidifferenti is integr with no limit . the answer to an antideriv is an equat.

if you want to integr a bracket like , we need to do it a differ wai. it is call the chain rule. it is like simpl integr. it onli work if the in the bracket ha a power of 1 like or .

<titl>antigonid dynasti</titl>
the antigonid dynasti wa a macedonian dynasti. the king were part of the famili of alexand the great's gener antigonu i monophthalmu . the dynasti end when the roman empir conquer the area after the battl of pydna in 168 bc. 

<titl>a vindic of the right of woman</titl>
a vindic of the right of woman: with strictur on polit and moral subject is a book written by mari wollstonecraft in 1792. todai, it is known as on of the first book about femin. in the 18th centuri, some peopl thought that women should not get a formal educ. wollstonecraft wrote thi work as a repli to them. she sai that women should have an educ that fit their posit in societi. she sai women ar veri import to the nation, becaus it is women who usual educ their children. she sai that an educ woman can also be companion to their husband, rather than just uneduc wive. wollstonecraft doe not see women as ornament to societi, or properti to be trade in marriag. she argu that thei ar human be, and therefor deserv the same basic right men have.

in 1791, charl-mauric de talleyrand-périgord wrote a report to the french nation assembl. in thi report, he argu, that women should onli receiv a veri basic educ. wollstonecraft us thi report to write her repli. she also led an attack on the sexual doubl standard the societi of the dai had. she also indict men for encourag women to indulg in lot of emot. wollstonecraft wrote the right of woman quickli so that she could directli respond to ongo event; she want to write a more thought second volum, but di befor do so.

wollstonecraft call for equal between the sex in particular area of life, such as moral, but she doe not write that men and women ar equal in all thing. thi ha made it difficult to classifi wollstonecraft as a modern feminist as thei believ men and women ar equal in all thing. she could not us either the word or the concept of femin, becaus thei were onli develop later. todai, mani peopl believ that her work wa not receiv well, but thi mai be wrong. peopl who believ thi also believ that wollstonecraft wa as revil dure her lifetim as she becam after the public of william godwin's memoir of the author of a vindic of the right of woman . howev, the right of woman wa actual well-receiv when it wa first publish in 1792. on biograph ha call it "perhap the most origin book of centuri".

<titl>afghan hound</titl>
an afghan hound is a dog from afghanistan. other name for them ar kuchi hound, tāzī, balkh hound, baluchi hound, barutzi hound, shalgar hound, kabul hound, galandai hound, or sometim, not rightli, african hound. thei have hair instead of fur. thei have black to the begin of the nose. their hair is from the tip of hi/her leg, to hi/her toe.

<titl>angular momentum</titl>
in physic, the angular momentum of an object rotat about some refer point is the measur of the extent to which the object will continu to rotat about that point when act upon by an extern torqu.

in particular, if a point mass rotat about an axi, then the angular momentum with respect to a point on the axi is relat to the mass of the object, the veloc and the distanc of the mass to the axi.

angular momentum is import in physic becaus it is a conserv quantiti: a system's angular momentum stai constant unless an extern torqu act on it. torqu is the rate at which angular momentum is transfer in or out of the system. when a rigid bodi rotat, it resist to a chang in it rotat motion is measur by it moment of inertia.

where, f is the forc vector, and r is the vector from the axi of rotat to the point where the forc is act. 

angular momentum is an import concept in both physic and engin, with numer applic. for exampl, the kinet energi store in a massiv rotat object such as a flywheel is proport to the squar of the angular momentum.

conserv of angular momentum also explain mani phenomena in natur.

<titl>atom theori</titl>
in chemistri and physic an atom theori explain what the basic structur of matter is like. it sai that all of matter is made up of tini part call atom, and attempt to explain what atom ar like. atom theori ha chang over time, but on of the earliest known atom theori wa explain by the greek philosoph democritu. a lot of the idea in the modern theori came from john dalton, a british chemist and physicist. 

the theori appli to solid, liquid and gase, but it doe not appli to plasma or neutron star, where temperatur and densiti stop atom from form.

dure the cosmolog era, the ancient greek philosoph were try to find an explan about the origin of the univers, and look for the main element. some of them point out it wa the water, some other the air, and other the fire, as the element thei thought it wa the main on. success, in the atomicist era, inaugur by democritu in the iv centuri b.c. he propos that when divid the matter mani time, it should reach a point when the particl could not be divid anymor, but that should preserv the origin matter properti. he name that particl atom, that come from greek word ἄτομον, mean without divis. he propos that the atom were etern, unchang and undestruct. between an atom and anoth, there wa just the noth. he conclud that the matter properti that ar perceiv to us could be explain by the properti and the conduct of the atom, that can't be distinguish directli.

democritu wa right about the composit of the matter. in fact, element like the oxygen , the nitrogen , the carbon , the hydrogen were constitut by atom of just on type, be these the fundament basi to the life and the explan to the constitut of the univers. by exampl, the univers contain in it composit a mass of 99% of hydrogen and helium ; the crust ha a mass of 74,3% of oxygen and silicon ; the atmospher, a 99% of mass of nitrogen and oxygen; the human bodi, a 93% of mass of carbon and oxygen; and the sea water, 55% of chlorin and a 30,6% of sodium .

howev, hi theori wa not valu at the time, and the scientif investig start in late xix centuri, remain until that moment aristotl's theori about the continu of the matter, that meant it could subdivid infinit tin piec everi time slower, therefor, to know the composit of the matter in a theme that wa suspend for a long time.

dalton postul' defin the atom as the basic unit of an element that can interfer in a chemic combin. mani scientist start to investig the atom after dalton, that could determin how is constitut the matter.

in 1850, sir william crook construct a discharg tube, that is a glass tube with metal electrod in it extrem, connect to a power flow sourc. when creat a vacuum in the tube, it can be seen the light discharg, that goe from the cathod to the anod . crook name it the cathod rai emiss.

after the cathod rai experi, sir joseph john thomson establish that the emit rai wa form by neg charg, becaus thei were attract by the posit pole. thomson knew that the atom were electr neutral, but he establish that, for thi to carri out, an atom should have the same quantiti of neg and posit charg. the neg charg were name electron .

accord to the assumpt establish about the atom electroneutr, thomson propos the first atom model, that wa describ as a posit-charg sphere in which the electron were inlaid . it is known as the plum pud model.

in 1906, robert millikart determin that the electron had a coulomb charg of -1,6 * 10-19, someth that allow to calcul it mass, infinit small, equal to 9,109 * 10-31 kg.

in the same time, the experiment made by eugen goldstein in 1886 in the cathod discharg tube allow him to establish that the posit charg, that later lord ernest rutherford name proton, had a mass of 1,6726 * 10-27 kg and a electr charg of +1,6 * 10 -19 c.

in 1910, the new zealand physician ernest rutherford suggest that the posit charg of the atom were found mostli in it center, in the kernel, and the electron around it.

rutherford establish thi conclus when he us an alpha radiat face to bombard gold slim metal sheet , surround by a zinc sulphid lampshad , that had the peculiar to produc flash with the crash of the alpha emiss. to do that, he mount a system, to deduc the nuclear atom model.

<titl>aung san suu kyi</titl>
aung san suu kyi ; born june 19, 1945 in yangon, burma, is a woman who tri to bring democraci to her countri. she is the leader of the nation leagu for democraci in burma and a famou prison. she never us violenc to make burma democrat.

suu kyi won the rafto prize and the sakharov prize in 1990 and the nobel peac prize in 1991. in 1992, she wa award the jawaharl nehru peac prize by india for her try to be peac.

in the 1990 gener elect in burma, suu kyi's polit parti won, so she should have becom prime minist of burma. the militari did not let her parti, the nation leagu for democraci join the govern. thei arrest her instead, and forc her to stai in her hous and not have ani visitor. thei have done thi mani time, and she ha been forc to stai in her hous for 12 year.

she is sometim call daw aung san suu kyi; daw is not part of her name, but a titl for older women. thi name show respect for her.

 aung san suu kyi wa the third child in her famili. her name "aung san" come from her father, who is also name aung san; "kyi" come from her mother; and "suu" come from her grandmoth.

her father help to make burma independ from the unit kingdom in 1947. he wa kill in the same year. she grew up with her mother, khin kyi, and two brother, aung san lin and aung san oo in yangon. her favourit brother aung san lin drown in a pool accid when suu kyi wa eight. her other brother live in san diego, california and is an american citizen.

suu kyi went to cathol school for much of her childhood in burma. she learn english in school.

khin kyi becam famou as a politician. she wa becam the burmes ambassador to india in 1960. aung san suu kyi went to colleg in india at the ladi shri ram colleg for women in new delhi.

she continu her educ at st hugh's colleg, oxford, and learn about philosophi, polit, and econom. she also went to the school of orient and african studi, univers of london in the 1980s.

she also work for the govern. in 1972, aung san suu kyi marri michael ari, a professor of tibetan cultur who live in bhutan. in 1973, she gave birth to her first son, alexand, in london; and in 1977 she had her second son, kim.

 aung san suu kyi return to burma in 1988 to take care of her sick mother. that year, the long-time leader of the socialist rule parti, gener ne win, stop be a politician. mani burmes peopl want a democraci after the militari rule the countri for sever year.

she admir mohanda gandhi's philosophi of non-violenc. she wa also inspir by buddhism.. aung san suu kyi tri to work for democraci and help make the nation leagu for democraci on septemb 27, 1988.

she wa offer freedom if she left the countri, but she refus.

<titl>advertis</titl>
advertis mean sai realli good thing about thing you bui, servic, compani and idea, usual perform by an identifi sponsor, and perform through a varieti of media. advertis influenc our ident by make commerci. mani peopl agre that thei influenc our ident and thei have a huge impact on our life. thei influenc our ident by us thing such as techniqu, stereotyp and target our audienc. our person ident is who we ar and what thing make us up such as occup, belief, person, self esteem, lifestyl, relat ship, friend, how we look and what we wear. advertis us techniqu to grab peopl's attent. for exampl, to make a burger look tasti in advertis, it mai be paint with brown food colour, sprai with waterproof to prevent it from go soggi and sesam seed mai be superglu in place. advertis will bring new custom and more sale for the busi. it can be expens but can help make a busi make more monei.

<titl>andrzej sapkowski</titl>
andrzej sapkowski is a well-known polish fantasi writer. he is probabl on of the most popular polish writer todai. hi best known work is the witcher saga . befor start hi career in the late 1980s, he work in foreign trade.

<titl>ammet</titl>
an ammet is a measur tool us to measur the flow of electr current in a circuit. the electr current is measur in amper; for thi reason, some peopl call the ammet as ampmet, by mistak. it can measur 'resist' of a current, speed of a current and forc of a current .

<titl>antipsychot</titl>
antipsychot drug ar us in the treatment of depress and mood swing. thei ar mostli us to treat schizophrenia. 

 the main inventor of thi drug wa andrew j. smith whom at the time wa 16 when he made it. he creat thi drug that ha save hundr of peopl with schizophrenia.

<titl>amorph solid</titl>
an amorph solid is a solid in which there is no long-rang order of the posit of the atom. . most class of solid materi can be found or prepar in an amorph form. for instanc, common window glass is an amorph ceram, mani polym ar amorph, and even food such as cotton candi ar amorph solid.

amorph materi ar often prepar by rapidli cool molten materi, such as glass. exampl: glass, candl wax, cotton candi 

<titl>a wizard of earthsea</titl>
a wizard of earthsea, written in 1968, is the first of a seri of book that ar written by ursula k. le guin and set in the fantasi world call earthsea. the seri is about a wizard name ged. thi book won the 1979 lewi carrol shelf award.

a mini-seri base on a wizard of earthsea and the tomb of atuan wa creat on the sci fi channel. le guin ha said that she wa not happi with the mini-seri.

<titl>alex lifeson</titl>
alex lifeson, oc is a canadian musician. he is best known as the guitarist and co-founder for the canadian rock band rush. lifeson ha been a member of the band sinc 1968.

in rush, lifeson plai electr and acoust guitar. he also plai other instrument includ: mandola, mandolin and bouzouki.

along with hi music career, lifeson is part owner of a toronto restaur call "the orbit room." he is also a licens airplan pilot

<titl>artemi</titl>
artemi is a goddess in greek mytholog, and on of the twelv olympian. she is the daughter of zeu and leto and the twin sister of apollo.

she is the goddess of hunt, wild anim and the wilder. dure the 5th centuri bc, artemi becam also known as the goddess of the moon, becom on with the goddess selen.

she is also known as the goddess who ask zeu to remain chast and unmarri.

 in greek mytholog, artemi is the daughter of zeu and leto, and the twin sister of apollo. leto had to find a place where the to give birth to the two. thi wa becaus of a curs set by hera, zeu' wife, becaus she wa angri with zeu. for thi, zeu rais an island that had been float underwat and had not yet been touch by the sun. the island wa dello. leto gave birth there, while grasp hold of a sacr palm-tree. artemi wa born first, and apollo second.

<titl>albin</titl>
albin is a condit some peopl and anim ar born with. thi condit is caus by a lack of pigment in their hair, ey, and skin. a person or anim with albin is sometim call an albino, but mani peopl prefer to be call a "person with albin".

peopl with albin usual have white or light blond hair and veri fair skin. their ey ar blue, or rare pink-ish. peopl with albin in realiti do have some problem includ bad vision and get sunburn easili. all of these problem ar becaus peopl with alibin have littl or no pigment in their ey, skin and hair.

vision problem in albin includ nystagmu , strabismu and refractori error .

albino anim ar easili attack by predat becaus thei cannot hide themselv like the non-albino member of their speci. 

 albin is a hereditari condit. it is usual inherit in an autosom recess pattern; it mean, both parent should carri the albin gene to have a child with albin.

<titl>anabaptist</titl>
anabaptist is a term to refer to certain christian movement. the follow of these movement think that believ should be baptiz; onli someon who believ can be validli baptiz; the baptism of infant ha to be confirm with what thei call believ baptism. the best-known anabaptist todai ar the mennonit, the amish, and the hutterit.

<titl>and did those feet in ancient time</titl>
"and did those feet in ancient time" is a short poem by william blake. it come in the introduct to a long poem call milton: a poem . todai it is best known as the hymn jerusalem, sung to music written by c. hubert h. parri in 1916, more than a centuri after blake had written the poem. 

there is a legend that the young jesu went to england with hi uncl, joseph of arimathea, to england and visit glastonburi. the poem connect thi legend to an idea in the book of revel describ a second come in which jesu build a new jerusalem. some christian thought that a new jerusalem would be like heaven, somewher of love and peac. the poem ask if jesu visit england and if heaven wa creat in england. blake live in the time of the earli industri revolut when there wa a lot of poverti and miseri. mani peopl think the “dark satan mill” were the factori where mani peopl work in horribl condit. thi contrast with the countri with it beauti and clean air: “england’s green and pleasant land”. the second half of blake's poem sai peopl should try to establish "jerusalem" onc more.

blake’s poem wa not veri well known dure the 19th centuri, but in 1916 a collect of poem wa publish which includ “jerusalem”. britain wa fight a terribl war , and so the peopl need some strong, patriot music to give them courag. robert bridg, the poet laureat ask parri to put it to music at a fight for right campaign meet in london's queen's hall. he want parri to write a tune that the audienc would be abl to sing easili. at first parri want vers on to be sung by a solo femal voic, but the version sung nowadai is the arrang for orchestra made in 1922 by sir edward elgar. when king georg v heard it for the first time he said that he prefer "jerusalem" to "god save the king", the nation anthem. 

england doe not have an offici anthem and so the british nation anthem "god save the queen" is us for nation occas, for exampl befor english intern footbal match or at the last night of the prom. the song is also the unoffici anthem of the british women's institut. it is often sung as a hymn in church, although peopl in some church think it is not a hymn. it is also sung in mani school. 

<titl>ariel sharon</titl>
ariel sharon a former prime minist of the state of israel.

ariel sharon wa in the israel armi for mani year. he fought in numer battl, and in 1974 he left the armi as gener. after the armi he decid to go to polit. in 1977, he becam minist of agricultur. in 1981 he becam the minist of defenc.

in 1983, he wa sent awai from the govern as minist of defenc after he wa found to be guilti for not prevent a massacr in lebanon where mani hundr of civilian were kill by other civilian.

in 2001, he wa elect for prime minist after the war between israel and palestin start.

in 2004, he surpris mani peopl when he said that israel will get out of the gaza strip, which is the place where mani palestin peopl live. 

in decemb 2005, sharon wa taken into hospit. on januari 4, 2006, sharon wa again taken to the hospit. he had a big stroke . rumour spread immedi of hi death, though these were deni by hi physician. ehud olmert, anoth member of sharon's newli form kadima parti, wa act prime minist until elect were held in israel, after which olmert becam prime minist of israel.

<titl>alcopop</titl>
alcopop ar alcohol drink. thei ar also known as readi-to-drink , flavor alcohol beverag or flavor malt beverag . thei ar usual avail in bottl or can. thei contain about the same amount of alcohol as a beer. usual, thei ar veri sweet, so that the alcohol can not be tast. 

there ar two differ kind of thi drink. in europ, thei ar usual spirit mix with lemonad, like vodka with lemon juic , or rum with fruit juic . in the us, thei tend to be beer, which tast veri sweet.

becaus thei ar veri sweet, alcopop tend to be more popular among young peopl. sinc the fact that thei contain alcohol is usual not oviou from the tast, these drink ar consid to be danger for young peopl by mani countri. these have either rais the tax on the drink, or thei have outlaw the sale of these drink to peopl under a certain ag .

<titl>alkali</titl>
in chemistri, an alkali is an aqueou solut with a ph of more than seven. the word 'alkali' come from the arab 'qali' mean 'from the ash' sinc ash mix with water were us as clean product, and feel soapi.

an alkali is where a base is dissolv in water. often it is the salt of an alkali metal an alkali is the opposit to an acid and can be neutralis by ad acid.

the higher the number is over 7 on the ph scale the stronger the alkali is.

 someon can find out how strong or weak an alkali is by ad univers indic to it. some univers indic can be pour into alkali and some ar soak into paper, and the paper is touch to the alkali. 

for exampl, soap and toothpast ar minor-strength alkali. lye is a strong alkali. 

<titl>alcohol</titl>
alcohol is the medic condit of peopl who often drink too much alcohol. some peopl who suffer from alcohol feel that thei have to drink alcohol, even when it caus health and social problem. alcohol mean addict to alcohol. peopl who suffer from it ar call alcohol.

the overus of alcohol ha differ caus, and there ar differ form of treatment avail. some of these treatment ar:

<titl>abelian group</titl>
an abelian group is a group in group theori that is commut. 

in other word, for a,b contain in group g, a*b=b*a for binari oper *.

<titl>act of union 1707</titl>
the act of union were a pair of parliamentari act pass in 1706 and 1707 by, respect, the parliament of england and the parliament of scotland, to make effect the treati of union which had been between the two countri. the act join the kingdom of england and the kingdom of scotland which had been separ state befor, with separ legislatur but with the same monarch into a singl kingdom of great britain.

the two countri had share a monarch for about 100 year . the act took effect on 1 mai 1707. 

<titl>amput</titl>
amput is the act of cut off a part of the human bodi becaus of medic reason.

<titl>archaeopteryx</titl>
the archaeopteryx is a prehistor anim from the late jurass. it is the link between reptil and bird.

the first archaeopteryx wa found in 1860 near solnhofen in bavaria, germani. todai, nine skeleton and on feather of archaeopteryx have been found.

the archaeopteryx look like a bird with feather, but it had a mouth with teeth, claw at the hand and a long tail like dinosaur or reptil. todai, it is known that some dinosaur look like bird and that some had feather. when thei ar born, todai's south american hoatzin have claw on their wing when thei ar young just like archaeopteryx. it usual at meat but it might have been an omnivor.

<titl>`abdu'l-bahá</titl>
`abdu'l-bahá wa a persian man who wa born on mai 23, 1844 and di on novemb 28, 1921. hi father wa bahá'u'lláh who found the religion known as the bahá'í faith. 

`abdu'l-bahá spent most of hi adult life in prison or under arrest, becaus of hi father's new religion. bahá'u'lláh call him the "expound" of hi word, mean that onli `abdu'l-bahá had the right to sai what bahá'u'lláh's write mean. thi wa to prevent differ peopl from split the religion up becaus thei thought bahá'u'lláh meant differ thing, the wai mani other religion have split up.

<titl>anubi</titl>
anubi is the greek name for the ancient god in egyptian mytholog who look like a man with the head of a jackal. jackal ar predat that look like dog and live in africa.

 peopl did not like jackal in ancient egypt, becaus the anim mess up grave. the egyptian peopl want to end thi by deifi them. deifi mean, in thi case, that thei creat a god that wa a jackal as well. therefor, the god of the dead anubi look like a dog or jackal. anubi wa the god of the dead becaus the jackal were often in graveyard at night. thi made the peopl think that the jackal protect the dead peopl in the grave. the priest who mummifi the dead king were also dress up as jackal. now that the jackal had becom a holi anim, dog and jackal were kept as pet in the templ. after their death, thei were mummifi and place in the templ. anubi wa the protector of the mummi against the challeng in the netherworld. after a while anubi becam sole the god of mummif becaus he invent mummif by us it to preserv osiri. becaus osiri wa the first mummi and the first to go to the netherworld, he becam king of it. the egyptian peopl believ that anubi help with the ceremoni that wa perform with peopl onc thei arriv in the netherworld. in thi ceremoni, the heart of the dead wa weigh against the feather of truth to see if the deceas had been a good person in life. if thei had been a bad person in life, then thei would go to a place where there would be food float abov their head, just out of reach. if thei ever got close to reach it, then demon would dig hole at their feet that thei would fall into, so that thei could never get their hand on the food.

 in later time, dure the ptolema period, as their function were similar, anubi came to be identifi as the greek god herm, becom hermanubi. the centr of thi cult wa in uten-ha/sa-ka/ cynopoli, a place whose greek name simpli mean "citi of dog". in book xi of "the golden ass" by apuleiu, we find evid that the worship of thi god wa maintain in rome at least up to the 2nd centuri. inde, hermanubi also appear in the alchem and hermet literatur of the middl ag and the renaiss.

although the greek and roman typic scorn egypt's anim-head god as bizarr and primit , anubi wa sometim associ with siriu in heaven, and cerberu in hell.

<titl>autumn</titl>
autumn is the season after summer and befor winter. in the unit state thi season is also call fall. in the northern hemispher, it begin with the autumn equinox and end with the winter solstic . in the southern hemispher, it run from the autumn equinox to the winter solstic .

in mani place, autumn is a time for harvest most crop. decidu tree lose their leav, usual after turn yellow, red, or brown. evergreen tree keep their leav all year round. also, in mani countri, autumn is the time a new school year start. in the uk, the period of school between the start of septemb and the end of decemb is known as the 'autumn term'.

when it is autumn in the northern hemispher, it is spring in the southern hemispher. when it is autumn in the southern hemispher, it is spring in the northern hemispher. on the equat, autumn is veri much like spring, with littl differ in temperatur or in weather. autumn is a time when most anim ar look for food so thei can store up for winter, becaus thei soon will be go into hibern. the weather get colder and more windi.

<titl>alpha helix</titl>
an alpha helix is a twist part of a protein. it is on of the two most common part of the secondari structur, or shape, of a protein. the other is the beta sheet. an alpha helix is creat by altern group of atom. there is a carbonyl group, creat by a carbon atom doubl bond to an oxygen atom, and an amin group, creat by a nitrogen atom bond to a hydrogen atom. each section contain on of each of these group is call a residu, a gener term for a small part of a molecul. each amin group form a hydrogen bond with the carbonyl group four residu earlier. a prion is a protein that caus diseas by chang the shape of anoth protein. it doe thi by chang some of the alpha helic, which ar more common in normal cell, to beta sheet, which ar more common in prion. the alpa helix consit of 3.6 residu per turn. all hydrogen bond face in the same direct.

<titl>accrington</titl>
accrington is a town in lancashir, england. it is locat in the north west. the town had a popul of 35,203 in the 2001 censu. accrington is home to the accrington stanlei footbal club.

<titl>durrani empir</titl>
the durrani empir wa a larg state found in what is now afghanistan and pakistan and later includ northeastern iran and even part of western india.

<titl>alexandria</titl>
alexandria is a larg citi in egypt. it is the largest coastal citi of egypt. it is also the second largest citi of egypt. it is on the coast, next to the mediterranean sea. alexandria is locat in the north of egypt, onli 225 km from cairo.

alexandria is name after it founder. alexand the great found alexandria in 331 bc. for a thousand year, alexandria wa the center of the greek world and the capit of the ptolema dynasti in egypt. score of famou greek scientist, such as euclid of alexandria live there or studi there. it wa home to the largest librari in the ancient western world, the librari of alexandria. it wa a veri wealthi citi in it heydai, and remain the prime wai egyptian grain went to rome. rome depend greatli on egyptian grain. but after the muslim conquest it lessen in import. the muslim conquer egypt in 641 ad, but did not want to have their capit at alexandria, becaus it wa too far awai from arabia. so the islam invad made a new capit on the east side of the nile, and call it fustat. alexandria nowadai is a 3.8 million peopl.it is the main harbor of egypt.it ha two airport and three big stadium.alexandria stadium ,harra el hadoud stadium and borg el-arab stadium in borg el-arab industri citi.

<titl>alexandria, indiana</titl>
alexandria is a citi in the state of indiana, in the unit state.

<titl>akira toriyama</titl>
akira toriyama is the creator of mani popular anim and manga seri, most notabl the dragon ball franchis. it ha mani media adapt, and is now on of the most popular seri of all time.

<titl>arithmet</titl>
arithmet is what we call work with number. it is a part of mathemat. the four basic arithmet oper ar addit, subtract, multipl, and divis. 

harder arithmet includ work with sign number, fraction, and decim, and take power and root.

most peopl learn arithmet in grade school, but some peopl do not learn arithmet and other forget the arithmet thei learn. mani job requir a knowledg of arithmet, and mani employ complain that it is hard to find peopl who know enough arithmet. a few of the mani job that requir arithmet includ carpent, plumber, auto mechan, account, architect, doctor, and nurs. arithmet is need in all area of mathemat, scienc, and engin. 

calcul ar us to do arithmet, but if a person need a calcul to do simpl arithmet, like 2 + 2 = 4, then thei will be too slow try to do arithmet on the job, just as a person who need to look up the spell of a word like "cat" in the dictionari will be too slow to write on the job. a skill worker ha to have a veri good knowledg of arithmet and the english languag in order to earn the right salari.

<titl>adolph sax</titl>
antoin-joseph sax wa a belgian inventor, best known for invent the saxophon.

<titl>axiolog</titl>
axiolog is the field of studi under the broad scope of philosophi that studi ethic and aesthet valu.

<titl>altern</titl>
in natur languag and in cognit decis-make, altern is on of two thing//action which can be chosen. from a specif perspect//goal, altern ar alwai equival.

in logic and mathemat, altern is the element of logic disjunct. 

<titl>alien and sedit act</titl>
the alien and sedit act were act sign by unit state presid john adam dure a naval conflict against franc. 

it wa made of four act. 

the first three act were about immigr. thei made it requir time for an immigr to becom a citizen and also allow the presid to send illeg immigr back to their home countri if their home countri is at war with the unit state or thei ar consid to be danger to the peac and safeti of the unit state. the fourth act made it illeg to publish bad thing about the govern.

the act were veri controversi . 

the act made mani peopl not like john adam. for that reason, thoma jefferson and the democrat-republican parti were abl to defeat john adam and the federalist parti.

<titl>amplifi</titl>
the word amplifi usual refer to an electron amplifi. electron amplifi make a signal from a radio or electr music instrument louder and stronger. 

 electron amplifi make a signal from the radio or electr instrument louder and stronger by us transistor or vacuum tube. electron amplifi have to be connect to electr current or a batteri to work. onc the signal from the radio or electr instrument ha been made louder and stronger, the signal need to be connect to a loudspeak so that peopl can hear it.

 in the 1940s and 1950s, electron amplifi us vacuum tube. howev, electron amplifi with vacuum tube were heavi, and thei produc a lot of heat. thei also broke down a lot. 

sinc the 1960s, most electron amplifi have been built with transistor. transistor ar lighter, less expens, and more reliabl.

<titl>azor</titl>
the azor ar a group of nine island locat in the north atlant ocean about 1,500 km from lisbon, portug. the azor ar full of green land, and is surround by the ocean.the azor belong to portug. the largest island is call sao miguel, .

<titl>outback</titl>
the name outback describ the remot area of australia. the outback is not a defin area, it is onli a term us to refer to locat that ar far awai from big citi. the fertil part ar known as rangeland and have been tradition us for sheep or cattl farm. agricultur, tourism and mine ar the main econom activ in thi vast and spars settl area.

 over 90% of the australian popul live in urban area on the coast. there have been variou attempt at creat settlement for australian aborigin to live tradition, with more or less success.

 becaus of the expans and remot in the outback a uniqu servic, the fly doctor, wa creat in 1928. the aim of the servic is to provid medic care to peopl who can’t reach hospit or other doctor. consult ar carri out via radio or telephon and for seriou situat, doctor ar flown out to the patient.

 organis travel with a guid to the outback is popular, although some australian and intern tourist travel in their own car. such a trip, especi off the few big road in the outback, requir veri good plan and a suitabl vehicl . on remot rout consider suppli and equip ar requir. some big trip can’t be undertaken safe without a convoi of sever vehicl. death of tourist ar a regular occurr becaus mani peopl ar not well-prepar for their outback trip.

<titl>ansbach</titl>
ansbach is a citi in middl franconia, germani.

<titl>arno</titl>
the arno is a river in the tuscani region of itali. it is the most import river of central itali after the tiber river. the river arno is in the north of itali.

<titl>apostl' creed</titl>
the apostl' creed , sometim titl symbol of the apostl, is an earli statement of christian belief, a creed or "symbol." 

it is wide us by a number of christian denomin for both liturg and catechet purpos, most visibl by liturg church of western tradit, includ the latin rite of the roman cathol church, lutheran, the anglican communion, and western orthodoxi. it is also us by evangel protest denomin such as presbyterian, methodist, congregationalist and mani baptist. 

thi creed seem to have been made as an argument against gnostic. gnostic wa a heresi in the earli dai of the church. thi can be seen in almost everi phrase. for exampl, the creed state that christ wa born and suffer and di on the cross. thi seem to be a statement directli against the heret teach, which state that christ onli appear to becom man, and that he did not truli suffer and die, but onli appear as if he did. the apostl' creed, as well as other creed, wa made to be like an exampl of the apostl' teach, and to defend the gospel of christ. 

the creed is name apostl' creed becaus it is made of twelv articl. peopl believ everi apostl inspir the holi ghost after pentecost wrote on articl. becaus of it earli origin, it doe not address some issu defin in the later nicen and other christian creed. thi make it accept to mani arian and unitarian.

 mani hypothes exist concern the date and natur of the origin of the apostl' creed. mani suppos it come from "the old roman symbol" of the 1st or 2nd centuri and wa influenc later by the nicen creed .

for more inform on the origin of the apostl' creed, see the detail discuss in the cathol encyclopedia.

 credo in deum patrem omnipotentem, creatorem caeli et terra. et in iesum christum, filium eiu unicum, dominum nostrum, qui conceptu est de spiritu sancto, natu ex maria virgin, passu sub pontio pilato, crucifixu, mortuu, et sepultu, descendit ad ínfero, tertia die resurrexit a mortui, ascendit ad caelo, sedet ad dexteram dei patri omnipotenti, ind venturu est iudicar vivo et mortuo. credo in spiritum sanctum, sanctam ecclesiam catholicam, sanctorum communionem, remissionem peccatorum, carni resurrectionem, vitam aeternam. amen.

 in the church of england there ar current two author form of the creed: that of the book of common prayer and that of common worship .

 the unit methodist commonli incorpor the apostl' creed into their worship servic. it is special becaus it doe not have the line "he descend into hell", but is otherwis veri similar to the book of common prayer version. the 1989 hymnal ha both the tradit version and the ecumen version, which includ "he descend to the dead." 

the unit methodist hymnal also contain what it term the "ecumen version" of thi creed -- a version which is ident to that found in the episcop church's current book of common prayer. thi form of the apostl' creed can be found incorpor into the eucharist and baptism liturgi in the hymnal and in the unit methodist book of worship, and henc it is grow in popular and us.

 the english languag liturg consult is an intern ecumen group whose primari purpos is to provid ecumen accept text for those who us english in their liturgi. in 1988 it produc a translat of the apostl' creed, distinguish among other thing by it avoid of the word "hi" in relat to god. the text is as follow:

<titl>agar</titl>
the word agar come from the malai word agar-agar . chemic come from agaros. it is obtain from red alga gellidium and gracillaria. it is us as a place to grow bacteria in an microbiolog laboratori, and to make some food thicker, like soup.

<titl>acid rain</titl>
acid rain is rain or ani other form of precipit that is unusu acid, i.e. elev level of hydrogen ion . it can have harm effect on plant, aquat anim, and infrastructur through the process of wet deposit. acid rain is caus by emiss of compound of ammonium, carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur which react with the water molecul in the atmospher to produc acid. govern have made effort sinc the 1970s to reduc the product of sulfur oxid into the earth's atmospher with posit result. howev, it can also be caus natur by the split of nitrogen compound by the energi produc by lightn strike, or the releas of sulfur dioxid into the atmospher by volcano erupt.

<titl>arlo guthri</titl>
arlo guthri is an american musician and songwrit, and is the son of folk music legend woodi guthri. hi most famou song is "alic's restaur", which wa also the titl of hi first album.

 guthri learn music from hi father, who wrote song for him like "goodnight littl arlo". when the young guthri becam thirteen year old, hi father gave him a bar mitzvah, and invit mani folk musician. it wa call "the first hootenanni bar mitzvah in histori."

guthri met bob dylan when dylan came from minnesota to meet hi father woodi. dylan taught guthri a new wai to plai the harmonica. guthri start colleg after high school, but drop out.

 dure 1965, guthri visit hi friend alic and rai brock in stockbridg, massachusett, who live in an old church, and own a restaur. he record a commerci jingl for the restaur. when thanksgiv came that year, thei invit mani peopl, and afterward there wa a lot of garbag to be pick up and thrown awai. guthri and anoth friend tri to take the garbag to a dump, but it wa close. thei found a larg trash pile not far awai, and unwis decid to throw their garbag onto the same pile. 

when local polic found out, thei arrest guthri and hi friend. sinc the young men had long hair and look like hippi, the polic want to prosecut them and make an exampl of them to other young peopl. thei prepar a big court case against guthri and hi friend, with mani photograph of the litter pile. it turn out the local judg wa blind, could not look at the photograph, and wa not interest in the case. he fine guthri and hi friend fifti dollar, and order them to clean up the pile.

not long after, guthri receiv a notic. the unit state armi want him to becom a soldier. guthri went for a physic examin, and had to fill out a give inform about himself. when ask if he had ever been arrest, he talk about the litter incid. he soon found himself sit on a bench togeth with crimin, some of which were violent or . he could not believ the wai he wa treat by the armi. he began to complain and protest hi treatment. the armi offic decid he would not make a good soldier, but might becom a threat to the american govern. thei ed guthri, and let him go.

guthri decid later the two incid would make a good protest song, and he built on around the jingl he had written. he call the song "alic's restaur massacre", and record it in front of a live audienc. he did not want other young men to be draft, and suggest in the song that thei might get out of the draft by do like he had.

the record becam half of hi first album, and the rest wa fill out with other music, like "the motorcycl song". the album becam a hit record.

 guthri later record other album and song. hi song "the citi of new orlean", about a famou train name after the citi, becam anoth hit. he bought a farm with the monei he earn from hi music, and live there between record session and perform tour.

in time, he becam interest in chariti work. he notic peopl of differ religi belief did not alwai work well togeth for the same caus, becaus their belief kept them apart. he tri to work around the differ, and help peopl find wai to work togeth to solv the same problem. he start the guthri center, as a place for peopl to work togeth. he later bought the old church where hi friend had live, and made it the headquart for the guthri center.

<titl>antioxid</titl>
an antioxid is a molecul that can slow or stop the oxid, or electron transfer, of other molecul. it is an addit in food.

antioxid ar molecul that reliev oxid stress by prevent format and by inhibit oxid of free radic . thei ar abl to donat on of their electron or hydrogen to free radic, stop their chain reaction . found in our diet or form insid our bodi e.g. enzym, antioxid can protect us from the damag effect of free radic . 

the best wai to combat free radic is to have a diet of fresh fruit and veget, red wine, and green tea . these function food ar rich in phytochem with antioxid properti. health supplement enrich with antioxid ar also now wide avail.

afzal, m., armstrong, d. . “fraction of herbal medicin for identifi antioxid activ”. in: armstrong, d. method in molecular biologi, vol. 186: oxid stress biomark and antioxid protocol, humana press inc.

halliwel, b., aeschbach, r., lolig, j., aruoma, o.i. . ”the character of antioxid”. food and chemic toxicolog 33: 601–617.

kaur, c., kapoor, h. . “review: antioxid in fruit and veget – the millennium’s health”. intern journal of food scienc and technolog 36: 703–725.

perciv, m. . “antioxid”. clinic nutrit insight 1/96 rev. 10/98. http://acudoc.com/antioxid.pdf

<titl>brass</titl>
brass is an alloi of copper and zinc. some type of brass ar call bronz.

brass ha a golden appear. it is harder than pure metal. it cost more than zinc.

<titl>bonn</titl>
bonn is a citi near cologn. it is in the german state of north rhine-westphalia.

bonn wa found on an old roman settlement, todai it ha about 310,000 inhabit.

follow world war ii bonn wa in the british occup zone. in 1949 bonn wa chosen as the provision capit of west germani.

bonn wa the choic of konrad adenau, a former cologn mayor and the first chancellor of west germani after world war ii, who came from that area. frankfurt am main had most of the need facil alreadi, so us bonn meant spend about 95 million dm to build new road and build. howev, frankfurt am main had been an import citi dure the war, and choos bonn wa to symbolis a new start for the new germani.

becaus of it rel small size for a capit citi, bonn wa sometim jokingli call the bundesdorf .

bonn wa the capit of west germani from 1949 until 1990 it. the bundestag vote to move to berlin on 20 june 1991, after a heat debat. the feder presid had alreadi decid to make schloß bellevu in berlin hi main offici resid. the extra build work need meant it wa 1999 befor the governäs move wa complet.

beethoven's birth place is locat at bonngass. next to the market place is the old town hall, built in 1737 in rococo style, under the rule of clemen august of bavaria. it's us for recept of guest of the town, and as a bureau for the mayor. close by is the kurfürstlich schloss, which ha been built as a resid of the princ-elector, and nowadai is the main build of the univers of bonn.

the poppelsdorf alle, an allei flank by chestnut tree, connect the kurfürstlich schloss with the poppelsdorf schloss, a palac that wa built as a resort to princ-elector in the first half of the 18th centuri. thi axi is interrupt by a railwai line and bonn central station, a build erect in 1883/84.

the three highest build in the citi ar the radio mast of wdr in bonn-venusberg , the headquart of the deutsch post call post tower and the former build for the german member of parliament langer eugen which nowadai is the new locat of the un-campu.

<titl>ballroom danc</titl>
ballroom danc is the name for a number of danc done in pair, usual on woman and on man. the most import differ in style is between the ballroom danc , and the latin danc .

all these danc can be danc social, more or less ani wai peopl want to. as competit danc, thei ar organis under the rule of the world danc council. these competit ar known as the intern style, becaus all intern competit ar conduct with those regul. there ar other system of danc regul by nation bodi. american style is on; scottish danc is anoth; greek classic danc is anoth. 

although the most famou dancer were fred astair and ginger roger, thei did not danc in ballroom. their career togeth wa entir on film. astair danc also on the stage, and on televis. the most famou american pair were vernon and iren castl; and arthur murrai, whose chain of danc school taught mani american to danc. the most famou english dancer wa probabl victor silvest, who wa a profession dancer and bandlead.

most of these ar danc that start in other place, but were develop in their modern form by english dancer and danc teacher.

most peopl do these danc for fun. when peopl compet against each other, the women wear formal dress for standard competit and short skirt for latin. men wear even wear for standard and inform shirt for latin.

peopl compet at mani level, but the basic divis is between amateur and profession. then, amongst amateur, there ar ag grade: juvenil, under 14, junior, under 21 and amateur. in the usa, competit mai be divid accord to danc abil: newcom, pre-bronz, bronz, silver, gold, pre-championship, and championship. the best-known competit is the blackpool danc festiv, england. thi ha been go annual sinc 1920 , and it event, like most english event, ar open to the world.

some peopl earn medal to show how thei ar improv. thei danc in front of a judg to earn a medal at the bronz, silver, or gold level.

there ar also some line danc, in which peopl danc as a group instead of with a partner. some line danc ar done to mambo, waltz, paso dobl, and samba.

some peopl danc in coupl, but also as a group, with everyon do the same step. thi is call format danc.

 american style ballroom danc is sometim call social style. it includ smooth and rhythm danc:

<titl>baltic sea</titl>
the baltic sea is a sea in northern europ between scandinavia, finland, russia, the baltic countri, poland, and germani.

mani big river in the surround countri drain into the baltic sea. the baltic sea is connect to the ocean through the narrow and shallow danish strait and belt. for thi reason, the water ha a low content of salt, so the northern part of the sea freez over in the winter. the ic can carri car, and road ar establish everi winter between the island in the archipelago between sweden and finland.

for sever thousand year the baltic sea ha connect the countri at her shore. for that reason you will find mani cultur similar in these countri.

<titl>brackish water</titl>
brackish water is salt water and fresh water mix togeth. it is saltier than fresh water, but not as salti as seawat. it mai result from mix of seawat with fresh water, as in estuari, or it mai occur in brackish fossil aquif. 

certain human activ can produc brackish water, in particular certain civil engin project such as dike and the flood of coastal marshland to produc brackish water pool for freshwat prawn farm. 

technic, brackish water contain between 0.5 and 30 gram of salt per litremor often express as 0.5 to 30 part per thousand . thu, brackish cover a rang of salin regim and is not consid a precis defin condit. it is characterist of mani brackish surfac water that their salin can vari consider over space and/or time.

 the term brackish water come from the low german word brack, which is a small lake creat when a storm tide break a dike and flood land behind the dike.

an estuari is a bodi of water with fresh and salt water.the most import brackish water habitat ar estuari, where a river meet the sea. the river thame flow through london is on of the most familiar of river estuari. , .

 anoth import brackish water habitat is the mangrov swamp or mangal. .

 some sea and lake ar brackish. the baltic sea is a brackish sea adjoin the north sea. .

the caspian sea is the world's largest lake and contain brackish water with a salin about on-third that of normal seawat. the caspian is famou for it peculiar anim fauna, includ on of the few non-marin seal and the great sturgeon, a major sourc of caviar.

<titl>the bronx</titl>
the bronx is a part of new york citi, unit state. the name came from bronck's farm, own by a settler call jona bronck.

<titl>belgium</titl>
belgium is a countri in europ. it is next to franc, luxembourg, germani, and the netherland. the name 'belgium' come from 'gallia belgica', a roman region in the northernmost part of gaul where the belga live, a combin of celtic and german peopl.

the capit citi of belgium is brussel.

there ar three region in belgium: flander in the northern half of belgium, wallonia in the southern half and the brussel-capit region in the middl . 

insid wallonia is the area of the german-speak commun of belgium. the commun ha it own parliament and govern, but thei ar not yet as power as the flemish and walloon bodi. 

belgium is next to franc , germani , luxembourg and the netherland . it total area, with surfac water area, is 33,990 squar kilomet, the land area alon is 30,528 km2. belgium ha three main geograph region: the coastal plain in the north-west and the central plateau ar part of the anglo-belgian basin; the ardenn upland in the south-east ar part of the hercynian orogen belt. the pari basin reach a small fourth area at belgium's southernmost tip, belgian lorrain. the coastal plain is made up of mainli of sand dune and polder. further inland li a smooth, slowli rise landscap water by mani waterwai, with fertil vallei and the northeastern sandi plain of the campin . the hill with mani forest and plateau of the ardenn ar more rough and rocki with cave and small, narrow vallei. extend to the west into franc, thi area is eastwardli link to the eifel in germani by the high fen plateau, on which the signal de botrang form the countri's highest point at 694 metr .

<titl>blue</titl>
the blue is a form of music that start in the unit state dure the start of the 20th centuri. it wa start by former african slave from spiritu, prais song, and chant. the first blue song were call delta blue. these song came from the area near the mouth of the mississippi river.

blue is base around a veri simpl pattern. “blue is easi to plai, but hard to feel”-jimi hendrix. a common form for the blue is a repeat 12 bar form . thi is put togeth as 3 phrase or section, each be 4 bar long. the basic blue onli need 3 chord, on base on the first note of the scale - the tonic chord, on base on the fourth note of the scale - the subdomin chord, and on base on the fifth note of the scale - the domin chord. the first section or phrase of 4 bar onli us the tonic chord. a common variat is to us the subdomin chord in the second bar. the second phrase ha 2 bar of subdomin chord then 2 bar of tonic chord. the third phrase ha 1 bar of domin chord, 1 bar of subdomin chord and finish with 2 bar of tonic chord.

the melodi of the simplest blue scale ar base on the minor pentaton scale for exampl c eflat g a bflat c, with extra note ad like thi c eflat gflat g a bflat c. blue note do not normal fit a scale, but thei give the music a special feel.

the lyric ar usual about life, the bad thing in life. thei ar to simpl blue song ar also base around the form of 3 phrase. the first phrase is set over the first 4 bar of music. the second phrase word ar a repetit of the first phrase, thi alwai happen and emphasis the messag. the third phrase complet the "stori" and rhyme as the first line. thi vers from robert johnson's "crossroad blue" show how these phrase work in a song:

the blue have made a differ in newer american and western popular music, such as jazz, bluegrass, rhythm and blue, rock and roll, hip-hop, and countri music, as well as common pop song.

<titl>berlin</titl>
berlin is the capit citi of germani. it is also the biggest citi in germani. about 3,400,000 peopl as of novemb 2008 live there. .

the citi is in the eastern part of germani. it is about 70 k west of poland. berlin ha an area of 891 k. the river havel, dahm and spree run through berlin.

berlin is home to mani famou build, like the siegessäul, the brandenburg tor, the reichstag and the boulevard unter den linden. on the boulevard ar the humboldt univers and the state opera of berlin. the govern mayor of the citi is klau wowereit .

berlin wa divid into west berlin and east berlin after world war ii. after the berlin wall wa built in 1961 veri few peopl were allow to cross from west berlin into east berlin. the wall divid the citi until 1989 when the east german govern decid to allow anyon to cross, and peopl decid to destroi the wall.

 berlin ha partnership with 17 citi. each of the 12 borough also ha their sister citi, sometim call twin citi.

<titl>bill clinton</titl>
william jefferson clinton wa , better known as bill clinton, wa the 42nd presid of the unit state. he serv from 1993 to 2001. he wa 46 year old when he wa elect. hi major oppon were georg h. w. bush and bob dole. clinton wa the first presid from the babi boom gener and wa the third youngest presid in the u.s. he is a democrat.

befor he wa presid, clinton wa also governor of arkansa .

dure the earli part of clinton's first term, he implement a tax code which would increas tax on the rich and decreas tax on the poor.

in 1994, dure clinton's first term in offic, the congress switch to a republican major. howev, clinton still beat republican bob dole in the 1996 elect.

the republican defeat clinton's propos for the u.s. govern to adopt univers health care. the republican propos mani new idea to congress to limit the size of govern such as requir the budget to be balanc and to stop peopl from abus the welfar system.

presid clinton wa accus of wrongdo by the u.s. hous of repres in decemb 1998 dure the monica lewinski scandal. although he li that thei did not engag in sexual activ, he wa found to have done noth wrong by the u.s. senat in februari 1999. 

the countri face veri few challeng dure hi term. the cold war wa over and there wa veri littl need for the u.s. militari to get involv in the world's affair, so defens spend wa significantli lower. the economi wa do veri well dure hi term, though there is a debat whether the economi wa well becaus of clinton's polici or becaus of the republican' polici.

the decad end with the be the first time the unit state did not have to borrow monei to pai for it budget. clinton left offic with high approv rate.

 after hi presid, he wrote some book and travel around the world help out the unit state. he is marri to us secretari of state hillari clinton and now live in new york. he is now the u.s. envoi to haiti.

<titl>beer</titl>
beer is an alcohol drink. it is made with water, hop, barlei , and yeast . beer is made when the yeast 'eat' sugar taken from the barlei and turn it into alcohol and carbon dioxid. make beer is call "brew".

beer is made by ad warm water to malt barlei and other grain. the enzym in the barlei chang the malt barlei and other grain into simpl sugar. thi is call the mash. the water is then sparg from the grain. the water is now call wort. the wort is boil and hop ar ad. hop provid flavour and preserv the beer. after boil the wort is cool and yeast is ad. the yeast turn the sugar into alcohol and the wort into beer.

differ beer can have differ natur, depend on the ingredi us; for exampl, an al us top ferment yeast. top ferment yeast eat more sugar and produc more alcohol. a lager us bottom ferment yeast. bottom ferment yeast eat less sugar and produc a crisper, cleaner tast. ad hop make the beer more bitter and aromat. specialti malt produc differ flavour and colour. these flavour and colour ar most notabl in dark beer like porter and stout.

differ countri have differ wai to make beer. in germani, austria,switzerland, czech republ, and slovakia, beer is usual made from just hop, malt, water, and yeast. thi is becaus of the reinheitsgebot. the reinheitsgebot wa a law that said sai that beer can onli be made from hop, malt, and water. yeast wa discov after the reinheitsgebot. the law wa overturn by the european union in 1992. in belgium, howev, beer ar also have alwai been made with wheat, sugar, fruit, and other ingredi.

the earliest record of beer were written around 7000 year ago by the sumerian. it is said that the sumerian discov the ferment process by accid. it is not known exactli how thi happen, but it could be that a piec of bread or grain becam wet, and a short time later, it began to ferment and made a pulp that caus peopl to becom drunk. a seal around 4,000 year old is a sumerian "hymn to ninkasi", the goddess of brew. thi "hymn" is also a recip for make beer. a descript of the make of beer on thi ancient engrav in the sumerian languag is the earliest account of what is easili recognis as barlei, follow by a pictograph of bread be bake, crumbl into water to form a mash, and then made into a drink, that is record as have made peopl feel "...wonder and bliss". it could even be possibl that bread wa first bake to be a wai to make beer that is easi to carri around. the sumerian were probabl the first peopl to brew beer. thei had found a "divin drink" -- thei felt it wa a gift from the god.   normal beer have around 4-6 % alcohol . in brew beer, the amount of alcohol can be made more or less quit easili. the belgian type of beer ar made by ad more sugar. through the ferment, thi will then turn to alcohol. todai, there ar beer with between 2% and about 16% of alcohol . some beer label sai there is no alcohol in them becaus it wa taken out later. thi is not complet true, though. beer "without alcohol" usual do have less than 1% of alcohol.

<titl>bit</titl>
a bit is a small amount of someth, such as a bit that is the smallest amount of comput or electron inform storag. it can be set to 0 or 1 , as machin-readabl inform. 

8 bit ar call a byte.

<titl>byte</titl>
a byte is a unit of measur. on byte is equal to eight bit. it is us when talk about the size of comput, or other electron data . 

 "byte" is properli abbrevi as uppercas "b". 

sometim it is incorrectli abbrevi as lowercas "b"; lowercas "b" is the abbrevi for "bit". for exampl, "mb" mean "megabyt" and "mb" mean "megabit". the differ is import becaus 1 megabyt is 1,000,000 byte, and 1 megabit is 1,000,000 bit. it's easi to confus the two, but bit ar much smaller than byte, so a lowercas "b" should be us when refer to "bit" and an uppercas "b" when refer to "byte". 

 accord to the intern electrotechn commiss , who set mani comput standard, these chart show how byte should be refer to.

==="kilo-" = 1,000 byte"kibi-" = 1,024 byte=== sinc comput ar digit devic that ar base on the binari numer system rather than the commonli-us decim numer system, there ar mani situat where the standard metric system doesn't work well, particularli with usb drive and other type of flash memori or ram. peopl who refer to 1 kilobyt as 1,024 byte, for exampl, ar technic incorrect; 1,024 byte should be refer to as 1 kibibyt, accord to the iec. 

<titl>beryllium</titl>
beryllium is an alkalin earth metal. it is grayish in color. it ha an atom number of 4 and is symbol by the letter be. it is toxic and should not be handl by anyon without proper train.

beryllium's atom structur consist of 4 electron, 4 proton, and 5 neutron.

beryllium is most like known for the chemic compound it form. some of these ar emerald and aquamarin.

beryllium ha on of the highest melt point of the light metal.

at standard temperatur and pressur beryllium resist oxid when expos to oxygen.

<titl>britnei spear</titl>
britnei spear , is an american pop singer.

 britnei spear wa born in mccomb, mississippi, about 25 mile awai from where she grew up in kentwood, louisiana. her parent ar jame and lynn spear. she ha an older brother, bryan and a younger sister, jami lynn spear . ever sinc britnei wa veri young she like to sing, danc and act so she took lesson. britnei also did gymnast and she wa veri good at it. when britnei wa eight, she tri out for a tv program for children in call the new mickei mous club. she wa great, but too young. everi summer for the next three year, britnei went to a school for perform art in new york citi. it wa a long wai from home for a young child, her mother and babi sister from a small town to go but britnei's famili believ in her. at the ag of 11, britnei tri out onc again for the mickei mous club and wa on the show from 1993. it wa film in lakeland, florida other on the show dure thi time were singer christina aguilera, justin timberlak, and jc chasez , and actor ryan gosl and keri russel. after the mickei mous club end in 1994, britnei spear went back to her hometown, kentwood and went to high school. in 1995 and 1996, she wa vote junior high school most beauti. britnei like her home but realli want to sing and danc again. in 1997 she join a girl group call innosens but she want to be a solo singer. later that year, the 16 year old britnei wa sign by jive record.

in 1998, she made her first song, "...babi on more time". the music video for the song is famou for show britnei in a schoolgirl uniform.

spear is current the 8th best sell femal artist in america and ha sold 83 million record worldwid. she ha on grammi, three mtv video music award, and her own star on the hollywood walk of fame. her most success song to date ar "toxic", "babi on more time", "gimm more" and "woman".

her most recent album 'circu' wa releas on her birthdai, decemb 2nd, 2008. it reach number on in the unit state and mani other countri. four singl have been releas so far : woman, circu, if u seek ami and radar. 

she is current tour america, sing and perform song from circu, as well as her older album.

 in 2002, spear plai the lead role, luci ann wagner, in the movi crossroad.

she also had a small role in the movi austin power in goldmemb in 2002.

 on januari 3, 2004, spear marri her childhood friend jason allan alexand in la vega, nevada, unit state. the marriag wa cancel onli 55 hour later.

on septemb 18, 2004, spear marri kevin federlin. thei had a son togeth on septemb 14, 2005 name sean preston spear federlin. on septemb 12, 2006, britnei gave birth to her second child, anoth son name jayden jame spear federlin.

in novemb 2006, spear file for divorc from kevin.

in septemb of 2007, spear lost some custodi of her two children, sean preston and jayden jame, to her ex-husband, kevin federlin.

at the begin of januari 2008, spear lost full custodi of her children after a mental breakdown. the media report mostli on britnei spear' mental issu and custodi battl with ex-husband federlin. 

sinc februari 2008, her father ha taken control of her estat and ha help britnei to get her life back to normal. 

britnei current ha 50/50 custodi of her two son.

<titl>brazil</titl>
brazil is a countri in south america and it is the world's fifth largest countri. the countri ha a popul of 186 million peopl. peopl in brazil speak portugues and it is the onli countri in latin america that speak portugues; most of the other speak spanish. the capit of brazil is braília, a citi plan and built from 1957 to 1960. the countri also ha the world's fourth largest citi, são paulo. 

 brazil ha the world's largest forest, the amazon rainforest. it make up 40% of the countri's land area. brazil also ha other type of land; there is a type of savanna call cerrado; there is also a dry plant region name caatinga. caatinga mean white veget in tupi, a nativ languag of brazil.

brazil is known for soccer, but it also ha mani other thing: a vari cultur , and a grow economi. brazil is the largest countri and in south america and the largest economi in latin america. it peopl includ peopl of portugues or other european descent, african descent, and nativ amerindian, as well as mani peopl of mix origin. brazil also ha the biggest number of japanes descend outsid japan. the countri is the fifth largest in the world by area. it is known for it numer rainforest and jungl. it neighbour guyana, surinam, french guiana, venezuela, colombia, peru, bolivia, paraguai, argentina and uruguai, therefor it border everi countri in south america, with the except of two, chile and ecuador.

the most import citi ar são paulo, rio de janeiro, salvador, braília, curitiba, belo horizont, porto alegr, recif, fortaleza, manau, goiânia and vitória.

peopl from brazil ar call brazilian .

 the olymp game will be in brazil and also the soccer world cup .

<titl>black forest</titl>
the black forest is a world famou forest in baden-württemberg, germani. import town ar : pforzheim, calw, baden-baden, offenburg, freudenstadt, horb, villingen-schwenningen, titise-neustadt and waldshut-tiengen. the highest mountain is the feldberg . the black forest is quit popular for hike, ski and nordic walk. in triberg, at the lake titise and in other place you can bui the famou cuckoo clock. a good wai to get to know the black forest is to travel on the deutsch uhrenstraße, a "nation scenic bywai." 

<titl>black sea</titl>
the black sea is a sea in eurasia between europ, caucasu, and anatolia. mani big river connect to the the black sea, like don, danub, and dnieper river.

it is connect to the atlant ocean through the mediterranean sea, aegean sea, and mani strait. 90% of the sea ha no oxygen, and the water ha salt in it. dure the last ic ag, the black sea wa a freshwat lake.

 in greek mytholog, the argonaut travel on the sea. the sea wa veri import to trade for mani countri in ancient histori. it wa also import dure world war i and world war ii.

<titl>bibl</titl>
the bibl is a collect of text written by differ peopl. certain text were written by historian who tri to show what ancient israel wa like. other text ar poem about god. still other were us to make law. all text were written over a period of about 1200 year. follow of judaism and christian consid the bibl sacr but thei do not all agre about what belong in the bibl. a number of text ar both in the hebrew bibl, us by jew, and the christian on. 

there ar mani name for the bibl; some call it holi scriptur, holi writ or the good book. the bibl wa written long ago in hebrew, arama, and greek, and translat were made later into latin and some other languag. now there ar translat english and mani other languag.

when talk about the bibl, a book is us to speak about a number of text. all the text that make a book ar believ to belong togeth. most of the time, peopl believ thei were written or collect by the same person. sometim, all the text of a book also have a common subject, for exampl how to punish someon who ha done someth against the law. the bibl contain differ kind of such book. some ar histori, tell the stori of the jew, jesu, or jesu' follow. some ar collect of wise sai. some ar god's command to hi peopl, which he expect them to obei. some ar song of prais to god. some ar book of propheci, messag from god that he gave through chosen peopl call prophet.

todai, a complet version of the bibl exist in 429 languag. part have been translat in 2429 languag. most bibl can be found in the british museum in london.

the bibl is a collect of book. the first part is call the old testament or tanakh. it wa mostli written in hebrew; a few part ar written in arama. thi part of the bibl is consid to be holi by jew as well as christian. 

there ar a few part of the old testament that can be proven by scienc. these part ar call deuterocanon by those church that accept them as part of the bibl, and apocrypha by those that do not.

the second part is call the new testament, which is written in greek. the main part of thi book is the stori of the life of jesu christ. the four differ version of thi stori in the new testament ar call the gospel. the new testament also contain letter by earli christian leader, especi saint paul. on of the most quot vers in the bibl is : "god love the world so much that he gave hi on and onli son, so that whoever believ in him will not be destroi but live forev."

peopl have differ idea about what the bibl is. christian believ it is god's word to peopl. the jew believ that onli the old testament is from god. protest and cathol believ that the old and new testament ar god's word. cathol also believ that the book call apocryph or deuterocanon ar part of the bibl. sometim differ church disagre over exactli what the bibl mean.

accord to islam, much of the bibl is true, but the koran is better. atheist do not believ that god exist, so thei do not believ that god could have sent peopl to the earth to write the bibl.

<titl>british columbia</titl>
british columbia is locat on the west coast of canada. it is the third largest canadian provinc with 944,735 squar kilomet or 364,764 squar mile. in the 2006 censu, the popul wa 4,113,487.

the capit of british columbia is victoria. the largest citi is vancouv. it ha 2 million peopl in it. other larg citi includ kelowna, abbotsford, kamloop, nanaimo, and princ georg.

the largest industri ar: forestri, tourism, mine, and fisheri.

the provinc join canada in 1871. there were some disagr with the unit state about where to make the border. the southern border is on the 49th parallel, as agre to in the oregon treati of 1846. the san juan island and alaska panhandl also creat conflict, but thei were resolv.

the premier of b.c. is gordon campbel. he lead the b.c. liber parti.

b.c. is next to the pacif ocean, as well as the provinc of alberta, the yukon territori and the northwest territori; and the american state of washington, idaho, and montana. the rocki mountain ar in eastern b.c. the okanagan is a fruit-farm area in the south-central part of the provinc known as the "interior."

there ar mani first nation group in british columbia. the nisga'a agreement in the year 2000 wa b.c.'s first modern land-claim treati.

the winter olymp will be held in vancouv in 2010. ski will be held at whistler, which is on of the best-known place for ski in north america.

<titl>gautama buddha</titl>
siddhārta gautama is the person who began the religion of buddhism. he live from about 563 bce to about 483 bce. he wa the most recent buddha, and some peopl just call him "the buddha". he is also call sakyamuni or tathāgata. some buddhist believ that siddhārtha gautama wa a perfect person.

there ar mani old stori about the life of the buddha. no on know which stori ar true and which stori ar made up. but most historian think that the buddha wa a real person. he wa veri kind and wise and want to chang the world.

old stori sai that siddhārtha gautama wa born in the kingdom of kapilavastu in nepal. at that time, a clan call the sakya rule kapilavastu. hi father wa a king name suddodana gautama, and hi mother wa the beauti mahamaya. siddhārtha live in luxuri; hi father kept troubl and hard work far from him. a seer predict that if siddhārtha stai insid hi palac hi whole life, then he would becom a great king. howev, if he left the palac, then he would becom a great religi leader. the king did not want hi son to becom a religi leader. he kept siddhartha in the palac for hi whole childhood.

when he wa older, hi father found a woman for siddhārtha to marri at the ag of 16. he marri the woman name yashodhara, and thei had a son, rahula. and then he also marri mani wive.thei ar thumata,kasana,mingala and malikar.siddhartha ha a lot of children. although gautama had everyth he could want, he still wa not happi. he want to learn the mean of hi exist.

he got out of the castl against hi father's order. he saw the "four pass sight": an old crippl man, a sick man, a dead man, and a holi man with no home. right then, gautama knew that noth can stop peopl from be born, becom old, get sick, and dy. he decid to give up hi worldli life. he would not keep hi wive, hi children , hi wealth, or hi palac. he would becom a holi man with no home. he would look for the answer to the problem of birth, old ag, sick, and death. he left hi home in the middl of the night.

at that time, holi men were usual ascet. thei hurt their bodi in order to help their spiritu be. thei do not do thing thei like so thei can defeat their desir. the most ascet kind of holi men were call jain. thei practic self-denial and made themselv suffer veri much. thei believ thi would free the ātman from pain and sad. siddhārtha did these thing well. eventu he wa better than hi teacher. he still found no answer, and he left hi teacher. some friend and he went even farther. he at onli six grain of rice a dai. he tri not breath. he becam just skin and bone, and he nearli di. still, he had no answer.

siddhārtha start to think again about thi path. he thought there might be a better wai than hurt himself. he found a big tree and start to medit. he told himself that he would not get up until he had found enlighten. he medit under the tree for 49 dai. hi mind is said to have becom pure, and then, six year after he began hi path, he said he found enlighten, and becam a buddha.

when the buddha becam enlighten, he knew the answer to suffer, and he knew how to defeat suffer. thi answer wa call the four nobl truth. he wa not sure if he should teach hi new idea or not. he ask himself if the world wa readi for such a deep teach. but in the end, he decid to travel to a town call sarnath to teach the peopl hi new wai. he taught about the four nobl truth and the nobl eightfold path. the peopl listen to him.

when he taught, he did not pretend to be a god. he said he wa just a man who had found the mean of life , and that ani person can also find the mean of life. for the rest of hi life, he walk all over southern nepal and part of india to teach peopl what he believ. he start a sangha, which is a group of buddhist monk and nun. mani peopl becam enlighten becaus of him.

at the ag of 80, gautama buddha di. the buddha's last word were, "all thing must end. work hard for your own enlighten".

the teach of the buddha ar known as buddhism. buddhism is mostli about end the feel of pain that all peopl feel insid. gautama buddha taught that pain is a part of all life. he taught that pain is becaus of desir. and he show that there is a wai to end desir and end pain by do good thing, not do bad thing, and train on's mind. thi is done to end pain and gain enlighten. 

buddhism teach non-harm and balanc &mdash not go too far on wai or the other. the buddha taught peopl to medit, or think deepli, while sit in the lotu posit. some buddhist chant and medit while walk. buddhist sometim do these thing to understand the human heart and mind. sometim thei do these thing to understand the wai the world work. sometim thei do these thing to find peac.

the buddha would not sai if god exist or not. he taught that peopl should not look to god to save them or bring them enlighten. the god mai have power over world event and thei might help peopl, or thei might not. but buddha believ that it is up to each person to becom enlighten.

<titl>bridg</titl>
a bridg is a structur built to cross an open space or gap. a bridg is most us for cross area, such as river, vallei, or fissur, where wheel vehicl ar unabl to go; but peopl have also us bridg for a long time for walk. bridg mai also be us to move vehicl in differ direct without need traffic control, such as with a highwai overpass.

bridg also have us in the militari, becaus the enemi might try to dig hole in the ground or creat river in order to prevent tank and the suppli line from follow. militari bridg have to be portabl, so that thei mai be easili move to the front line, and so thei ar much more complex than regular civilian bridg. there ar four main type of bridg: beam bridg, cantilev bridg, arch bridg and suspens bridg. beam bridg ar mostli straight-out and simpl. a cantilev bridg is a bridg built us cantilev: structur that go horizont into space, support on onli on end. arch bridg ar just that: bridg that have arch. suspens bridg ar suspend from mani steel rope that support, or hold up, the bridg.

<titl>board game</titl>
a board game is a game usual plai with piec on a board-like area. board game mai also involv dice, card, monei,board chip,etc. some exampl of board game ar chess, scrabbl, checker, backgammon, irensei, parqués and go. chess & checker ar plai on a 8x8 squar board, consist of 32 white & black squar.

<titl>bead</titl>
a bead is a small item with a hole in it for string. bead can be made from mani differ thing includ wood, glass, and gemston. the oldest known bead ar over 100,000 year old.

<titl>baruch spinoza</titl>
baruch spinoza wa a dutch philosoph of portugues jewish origin. he is consid to be on of the great rationalist philosoph of the 17th centuri. other famou rationalist includ gottfri leibniz and rené descart.

spinoza's idea were dislik by the jewish commun of the time, and spinoza wa excommun in 1656.

an import idea in spinoza's philosophi is that god and natur ar the same thing. oppos dualism, spinoza said that the bodi and the mind ar two of god's infinit attribut. 

there is no good or evil in natur, and that these word onli have mean for human be. for a person, an event that lead to happi is good, and an event that lead to suffer is bad. 

the goal of everi person is to intellectu love god .

<titl>be</titl>
the word be mean the same as "person". men, women, and children ar human be.

some peopl write stori or make movi about be from other planet. most religion talk about supernatur be, for exampl spirit, angel, devil, god, or god.

be is someth that is.

<titl>bird</titl>
bird ar a group of anim call vertebr, or anim with backbon. thei form the class av.

thei ar warm-blood and lai egg. their bodi ar cover with feather and thei have wing. their bone ar hollow. thi make them lighter and allow mani of them to fly. bird have two leg usual cover with scale . thei have a hard beak with no teeth. becaus bird keep a high bodi temperatur, thei us lot of energi. so, thei need to eat a lot of food compar with their weight. more than 9000 differ speci of bird ar known. 

bird ar found on everi contin of the world. bird of differ type can live in freez cold environ, and and other can live in hot desert. bird live in forest, in grassland, on cliff face, in river bank, on stoni sea shore, down mine shaft and in the roov of hous. 

differ type of bird eat differ food. most bird ar carnivor mean that thei eat flesh, at least some of the time. mani bird live on insect or on fish. some eat small reptil and mice. bird of prei eat mammal and other bird. some bird ar scaveng and eat the bodi of creatur that have di. mani bird such as parrot and finch live on seed and fruit. some bird that eat mainli seed feed their young on insect. a few type of bird eat green plant, but onli on speci live on leav. hummingbird and honeyeat live on the nectar or honei in flower. 

bird come in mani size from the bee hummingbird that is onli 60 mm long to the ostrich which stand 2.5 metr high. the bird with the widest wingspan is the wander albatross mani of which measur 3 metr from tip to tip.   becaus bird live on everi contin and have adapt to all sort of condit, differ type of bird look veri differ from each other. the most notic differ ar the size, the shape of the beak, the length of the leg, the length of the neck and the colour.

the smallest type of bird ar tini bird that feed on nectar, honei and insect. the biggest bird ar flightless bird with long leg-- ostrich, emu and cassowari. howev, veri larg bird ar also found soar high in the sky-- eagl, vultur, albatross and pelican. the wai to understand the live habit of a bird is to look at it leg and feet, it beak, it neck and it wing. 

if a bird ha veri long leg, then it probabl spend most of it time walk, like a crane, or wade , like a flamingo. bird with long leg need long neck to match, so thei can reach their food. bird with short leg and long neck like pelican, gees and swan ar bird that swim well and dive their head into the water for food. their beak ar often flat for scoop up water weed. a pelican's beak can chang into a shape like a huge bucket for catch fish.

bird that ar shape like torpedo ar good at dive. albatross, seagul and kingfish all have long strong beak for catch fish. some bird, such as eagl, owl vultur and hawk, have beak which ar hook and veri larg claw with which thei can tear and carri meat. 

some bird have veri long thin beak that thei us for dip into flower or poke into hole in the ground. these includ hummingbird, bee eater and avocet. some bird have short beak but wide mouth that ar perfect for catch insect in the air, like swallow, swift and nightjar. some bird that eat fruit, like toucan and hornbil, have beak which ar enorm, but ar veri light in weight. the curv beak of parrot ar good for eat larg seed and crack nut, while bird that peck small seed and food from the ground have short beak like pigeon. 

 bird come in a huge rang of colour. these colour can be us to a bird in two wai. the colour can either help to hide the bird, or thei can help to attract attent to the bird when it is look for a mate.

 mani bird ar brown, green or grei. these colour make a bird harder to see; thei camouflag the bird. brown is the most common colour. brown bird includ sparrow, emu, thrush, lark, eagl, falcon and the femal bird of mani speci such as wren, duck, blackbird and peacock. when a brown bird is in long grass or among tree trunk or rock, it is camouflag. bird that live in long grass often have brown feather streak with black which look like shadow. a bittern is almost invis in long reed. other bird, includ starl and minah, ar quit dark in colour, but ar fleck with littl spot that look like raindrop on leav. 

mani bird from hot countri ar green or have some green feather, particularli parrot. bird that live in green tree often have green back, even if thei have bright-colour breast. from the back, the bird ar camouflag. thi is veri us when sit on a nest. the bird's bright-colour breast is hidden. budgerigiar ar bred in differ colour such as blue, white and mauv, but in the wild, thei ar nearli all green and yellow. even though thei fly veri well, thei normal spend a lot of time on the ground, eat grass seed. their yellow and black stipe back help to hide them in the shadow made by long dry grass, while their green breast ar a similar colour to the leav of gum tree.

grei bird includ most pigeon and dove, crane, stork and heron. grei bird ar often rock-live bird like pigeon, or bird that sit on dead tree trunk look like a broken branch. water bird like heron often have a pale grei colour which make it harder for a fish to notic that the bird is stand, look down for someth to catch. water bird, no matter what colour thei ar on top, ar often white underneath, so that when a fish look up, the bird look like part of the sky.

black bird includ crow, raven and male blackbird. some bird that ar dark colour spend quit a lot of time on the ground, hop around in the shadow under bush. among these bird ar the male blackbird and the satin bowerbird which is not black but veri dark blue. crow and raven often perch high on bare tree in the winter, where their black shape against the sky look like the dark bare branch. 

 mani bird ar not camouflag but stand out becaus thei ar pi. thi mean that thei ar black and white. black and white bird includ magpi, pi gees, pelican, and australian magpi . pi bird often have brightli colour beak and leg of yellow or red. the silver pheasant, with it long white tail stripe with fine bar of black, ha a brightli colour face.

some bird ar famou for their colour and ar name for it, such as the bluebird, the azur kingfish, the golden pheasant, the scarlet macaw, the violet wren and the robin redbreast.

mani other bird ar veri brightli colour, in countless combin. some of the most colour bird ar quit common like pheasant, peacock, domest fowl and parrot. colour small bird includ blue tit, the gold finch, hum bird, fairi wren and bee eater . some bird, like those of the bird of paradis in papua new guinea have such beauti feather that thei have been hunt for them. 

with some bird, such as flamingo, the male and the femal ar both brightli colour. with other speci, onli the male is brightli colour, and us hi colour feather to attract femal. the peacock is the best exampl of thi, but also in the domest fowl, the male ha long shini feather abov hi tail and also long neck feather that mai be a differ colour to hi wing and bodi. there ar onli a veri few type of bird where the femal is more colour than the male.

 most bird can fly. thei do thi by push through the air with their wing. the curv surfac of the wing caus air current which lift the bird. flap keep the air current move to creat lift and also move the bird forward. 

some bird can glide on air current without flap. mani bird us thi method when thei ar about to land. some bird can also hover and remain in on place. thi method is us by bird of prei such as falcon that ar look for someth to eat. seagul ar also good at hover, particularli if there is a strong breez. the most expert hover bird ar tini hummingbird which can beat their wing both backward and forward and can stai quit still in the air while thei dip their long beak into flower to feed on the sweet nectar. 

 differ type of bird have differ need. their wing ar adapt to suit the wai thei fly. 

larg bird of prei, such as eagl, that spend a lot of time soar on the wind have wing that ar larg and broad. the main flight feather ar long and wide. thei help the eagl to stai on rise air current without us much energi, while the eagl look at the ground below, to find the next meal. when the eagl see some small creatur move, it can close it wing and fall from the sky like a missil, open it great wing again to slow down as it come to land. the world's largest eagl, the philippin eagl ha a wingspan of about 2 metr wide.

bird that live in grassland area or open forest and feed on fruit, insect and reptil often spend a lot of time fly short journei look for food and water. thei have wing that ar shape in a similar wai to eagl, but rounder and not as good for soar. these includ mani australian bird like cockatoo.

bird, such as gees, that migrat from on countri to anoth fly veri long distanc. their wing ar big and strong, becaus the bird ar larg and thei stock up on food for the long flight. migrat water bird usual form famili group of 12-30 bird. thei fly veri high, make us of long stream of air that blow from north to south in differ season. thei ar veri well organis, often fly in a v pattern. the gees at the back don't have to flap so hard; thei ar pull on by the wind of the on at the front. everi so often, thei chang the leader so that the front bird, who doe most work and set the pace, can have a rest. gees and swan ar the highest-fly bird, reach 8,000 metr or more when on migrat. gees often honk loudli while thei ar fly. it is thought that thei do thi to support the leader and help the young on.

bird that fly veri quickli, such as swift and swallow, have long narrow point wing. these bird need great speed becaus thei eat insect, catch most of them while thei ar fly. these bird also migrat. thei often collect in huge flock of thousand of bird that move togeth like a whirl cloud. 

bird that live in bush and branch have triangular wing that help the bird chang direct. mani forest bird ar expert at get up speed by flap and then glide steadili among the tree, tilt to avoid thing as thei go. member of the kingfish famili ar expert at thi type of fly.

bird such as owl that hunt at night have wing with soft round feather so that thei don't flap loudli. bird that ar awak at night ar call nocturn bird. bird that ar awak dure the dai ar diurnal.

a wander albatross and arctic tern might spend sever year without come to land. thei can sleep while glide and have wing which, when thei ar stretch right out, look like the wing of a jet plane. 

bird like chicken that feed mainli on the ground and onli us their wing to fly to safeti have small wing.

 some bird do not fly. these includ run bird like ostrich and emu and ocean-live bird, the larg penguin famili. 

ostrich and emu do not need to fly becaus although thei feed and nest on the ground, their great size and their speed is their protect. some other ground-feed bird have not been so lucki. some bird such as the dodo and the kiwi were ground-feed bird that live in safeti on island where there wa noth danger to eat them. thei lost the power of flight. kiwi ar endang becaus european settlement to new zealand brought anim like cat, dog and rat which kill kiwi and eat their egg. howev, kiwi and also the rare new zealand ground parrot have surviv. in the case of dodo, thei were fat and delici. thei were kill and eaten by sailor until there wa none left. other flightless bird which have disappear ar the auk and the moa.

penguin spend a great deal of time at sea, where thei ar in danger from seal. on land, thei usual live in area where there were few danger, until the arriv of european settler with dog and cat. their wing have adapt to life in the sea and have becom flipper which help them in swim veri fast.

 although bird ar warm-blood creatur like mammal, thei do not give birth to live babi. thei lai egg like cold-blood creatur such as lizard. unlik most reptil, the shell of a bird's egg is hard. the babi bird grow insid the egg and after a few week, break out, or hatch. 

bird in cold climat usual have a breed season onc a year in the spring. migratori bird can have two spring and two mate season in a year. so can bird that live in hot climat. 

when the breed season arriv, the bird choos partner. some bird ar mate for life, like marri coupl. these bird includ pigeon, gees, and crane. other bird look for new partner each year and sometim a male bird or cock will have sever wive. 

for bird that choos new mate, part of the breed season is displai. the male bird will do all sort of thing to attract femal. these includ sing, danc, show off the feather and build a beauti nest. some male bird have splendid feather for attract femal. the most famou is the peacock who can spread the feather abov hi tale into a huge fan. 

 onc the bird have found partner, thei find a suitabl place to lai egg. the idea of what is a suitabl place differ between speci, but most build bird nest. robin will make a beauti littl round nest of woven grass and carefulli line it with feather, bit of fluff and other soft thing. swallow like to nest near other swallow. thei make nest from littl blob of clai, often on a beam near the roof of a build where it is well shelter. mani bird like a hollow tree to nest in. eagl's nest ar often just pile of dead wood on the top of the tallest tree or mountain. scrub turkei scratch togeth a huge pile of leav that mai be 10 metr across. guillemot lai their egg on rock shelv with no nest at all. their egg ar shape so that thei roll around in circl. a cuckoo doesn't make it own nest. it lai it egg in the nest of anoth bird and leav it for them to care for. the cuckoo egg ar camouflag to look like the host's egg.

when the nest ha been prepar, the bird mate so that the egg ar fertilis and the chick will start grow. unlik mammal, bird onli have on open as the exit hole for bodi fluid. the open is call the cloaca. a femal bird, call a hen ha two ovari, of which the left on usual produc egg. 

most male bird have no sex organ that can be seen. but insid the male ar two test which produc sperm which is store in the cloaca. bird mate by rub their cloaca togeth, although with some bird, particularli larg water bird, the male ha a sort of a peni insid the cloaca.

 onc the hen ha mate, she produc fertil egg which have chick grow insid them. she lai the egg in the nest. there might be just on egg or a number of them, call a clutch. emu might lai as mani as fifteen huge dark green egg in a clutch. after the egg ar laid, thei ar incub, or kept warm so the chick form insid. on of the good thing about the fact that most bird stai togeth for the whole nest time is that the work is share. the bird gener take turn sit on the egg, so that both can feed. 

thi is not alwai the case. with emu, the male doe all the sit and all the babi-mind. with emperor penguin it is also the male that care for the egg. there is onli on egg, which he keep on hi feet and under hi feather, stand in a big group of male without feed until the chick is hatch. while the egg ar hatch, the femal ar at sea, feed, so that thei can care for the chick when thei return. 

with bird that build mound, the heat to hatch the egg come from the sun on the rotten leav. the parent leav the mound. when the chick hatch, thei ar strong enough to feed themselv. 

mani type of bird take 2-4 week to hatch egg. albatross take 80 dai. dure thi time the femal lose a lot of her bodi weight. 

the quickest hatch time is for the cuckoo. some type of cuckoo take onli 10 dai. thi mean that when thei hatch in the nest of their "foster parent", the egg that the parent have laid ar not yet readi. newborn cuckoo ar nake, blind and ugli, but thei ar veri strong. thei get under ani egg that ar in the nest and throw them out befor thei hatch. that mean that the cuckoo ha the whole care of both parent. babi cuckoo grow fast and ar often soon bigger than the parent who feed them. 

when babi bird hatch, in most type of bird, thei ar fed by both parent, and sometim by older aunti as well. their mouth ar open all the time and ar often veri brightli colour so the parent can easili see where to put the food. for bird that eat grain and fruit, the parent eat and partli digest the food for the babi. it is then vomit carefulli into the babi mouth. 

 mani bird, particularli those that mate for life, ar veri sociabl and keep togeth in a famili group which might be anyth from 4 or 6 adult bird and their young to a veri larg flock. 

as chick grow thei chang the fluffi down that cover them as babi for real feather. at thi stage thei ar call fledgl. other famili member mai help care for fledgl chick, feed them, and protect them from attack while parent ar feed. when the fledgl have their new feather, thei come out of the nest to learn to fly. in some type of bird, like pigeon, the parent watch over thi and as the young on get stronger, will give them fly lesson, teach them how to glide, how to fly in spiral and how to land like an expert.

 flock of bird can be veri highli organis in a wai that take care of all the flock member. studi of small flock bird like tree sparrow show that thei clearli commun with each other, as sometim thousand of bird mai fly in close format and spiral pattern without collid . 

two common behaviour in flock bird ar guard and reconnaiss. when a flock of bird is feed it is common for on bird to perch on a high place to keep guard over the flock. in the same wai, when a flock is asleep, often, on bird will remain awak. it is also common for larg flock to send on or two bird ahead of them when thei ar fly to a new area. the look-out bird can spy the lie of the land to find food, water and good place to perch. .

 all bird make sound to commun. the type of nois that thei make ar differ. all bird have cri which ar the sound to commun. some bird can also sing. these bird ar call songbird. some songbird ar robin, lark, canari, thrush, nightingal and crow. bird that ar not songbird ar pigeon, seagul, eagl, owl and duck. parrot ar not songbird, even though thei can be taught to sing human song. 

 the austrian naturalist konrad lorenz studi the wai in which bird commun, or talk to each other. he found that each type of bird had a number of sound which thei made automat, when ever thei felt a certain wai. everi sound had an action that went with it. so, if the bird wa frighten, it act frighten and made a frighten sound. thi told the other bird around it that someth frighten wa happen. 

if a flock of bird were fly over a field, thei would be call "fly! fly!" but a hungri bird, see someth good to eat down below might start call "food! food!" if other bird were also hungri, thei would make the same call until more bird were call "food! food!" than "fly! fly!". at thi point, the mind of the flock would be chang. some of the bird would start to yell "fly downward! fly downward!" as thei sank from the sky, until the whole flock wa all noisili call the same thing. 

these commun sound ar often short hard sound like chirp, squeak, squawk. and twitter. sometim the call ar longer and more music. thei includ the "rooketi-coo" sound of a pigeon and the "cockadoodledoo!" of a rooster. the bird cannot chang these sound. thei alwai make them in the same wai. the bird is lock into make each sound everi time a particular idea come into it head.

 when a bird sing, it can chose what it sing and it can chang it song. most sing bird that ar kept as pet, like canari, have sever tune and some variat. songbird in the wild can learn song from each other. the same speci of bird will sing differ song in differ region. 

a good exampl of thi is the currawong. thi is an australia bird which is like a black and white crow. in the autumn, famili get togeth in larg flock and do a lot of sing. currawong from some area sing much more complex song than other. gener, currawong from the blue mountain ar the finest singer. 

the song of the currawong can be sung as a solo, but is often perform as a choir. on bird will take the lead and sing "warbl-warbl-warbl-warbl!" all the other bird will join in and sing "wooooooo!" when all the bird know the song, the choir will sing the "warbl" part and the soloist will sing the "woo!". the song chang from year to year and from place to place. 

konrad lorenz notic that when bird sing, thei often us a lot of their regular call as part of the song. lorenz had a flock of jackdaw which were scatter dure world war ii. on dai, an old bird return. for mani month she sat on the chimnei sing her song, but in the song she kept make the call which lorenz knew meant "come home! come home!" on dai, to the great surpris of lorenz, a male bird flew from a pass flock and join her on the chimnei. lorenz wa sure that it wa her long-lost "husband" who had found hi wai home at last.

bird ar classifi by taxonomist as "av". the "av" ar descend from carnivor dinosaur call therapod. av and crocodilia , ar the onli live member of the archosaur reptil. av is now defin as all descend of the most recent common ancestor of modern bird and archaeopteryx lithographica.

 archaeopteryx, from the upper jurass , is the earliest known type of bird. it is famou, becaus it wa on of the first import fossil found after charl darwin publish hi idea about evolut in the 19th centuri. todai it is the oldest, simplest bird we know. some biologist think that archaeopteryx could not fly veri well. other earli bird now extinct ar, for exampl, the confuciusornithida, enantiornith, ichthyorni, and hesperorni. 

scientist have been studi fossil in china to discov more about the origin of bird. palaeontologist now agre that bird evolv from theropod dinosaur. some scientist think of bird as a type of dinosaur that is still aliv todai and belong to the maniraptora group of theropod. fossil found in the liaon provinc of northeast china show that mani small theropod dinosaur had feather. a dromaeosaur fossil call a cryptovolan could probabl fly. it mai have been better at fly than archaeopteryx. 

bird ar an import thing for peopl to eat. the sort of bird that peopl eat most often is the chicken and it egg, but peopl often also eat gees, pheasant, turkei and duck. other bird ar sometim eaten ar emu, ostrich, pigeon, grous, quail, dove, woodcock, songbird and other.

at on time swan and flamingo were special food for the rich and power, like some emperor of rome, but peopl ar usual not allow to eat them now.

mani speci have all di becaus thei have been hunt for food, for exampl the "passeng pigeon". mani other ar in danger or dead, becaus peopl have taken awai the place where thei live for wood or farm.

mani speci have learn how to get food from peopl. the number of bird of these speci ha grown becaus of it. seagul and crow find food from garbag dump. the common pigeon , hous sparrow passer domesticu and common starl live in larg number in town and citi all over the world.

sometim peopl also us bird. for exampl home pigeon carri messag. nowadai peopl sometim race them for sport. peopl also us falcon for hunt, and cormor for fish. scientist often us chicken and pigeon to help find answer to their question. in the past, peopl in mine often us a canari to see if there were bad gase in the air.

peopl often have color bird such as parrot and mynah as pet. some of these bird ar popular becaus thei can copi human talk. becaus of thi, some peopl trap bird and take them to other countri to sell. thi is not usual allow. most pet bird ar special bred and ar sold in pet shop. 

peopl can catch some bird diseas, for exampl psittacosi, salmonellosi, campylobacteriosi, newcastl's diseas, mycobacteriosi, influenza, giardiasi, and cryptosporiadiosi. in 2005, there is an epidem of bird influenza spread through some part of the world, often call avian flu.

some peopl have birdbox in their garden to give bird a place to nest and bird tabl where bird can get food and water in veri cold or veri dry weather.

<titl>bulgaria</titl>
the republ of bulgaria is a countri in south-eastern europ.

it wa establish in 681 ad. the capit and the biggest citi is sofia. the currenc is the bulgarian leva. bulgaria is a member of the european union and nato. it is prepar to join the euro zone. therefor, bulgaria would chang over to the euro after sever year. the current presid is georgi parvanov. the popul of bulgaria is 7.8 million peopl.

bulgaria's offici languag is bulgarian. the bulgarian languag is a slavic languag. it is relat to languag like serbian and russian. bulgaria becam independ in 1878 from the ottoman empir. bulgaria border romania, serbia, the republ of macedonia, greec, turkei, and the black sea. on of the nation hero of bulgaria is vasil levski. hi real name is vasil ivanov kunchev. he wa born in karlovo in 1837.

 for 500 year, bulgaria wa rule by the ottoman empir. throughout most of the 20th centuri, it foreign polici wa influenc by the soviet union. in the earli 1990s, as the soviet union began to collaps, bulgaria grew more independ of soviet polici. 

within a few year of the fall of the berlin wall, bulgaria experienc seriou econom problem, and the socialist govern that took power after the communist fell in 1989. but sinc then, bulgaria ha posit rebound. after some real econom reform and respons monei plan, the govern ha becom more stabl. problem in the administr, a weak court system and organ crime ar the biggest issu for bulgaria.

<titl>bryozoa</titl>
bryozoan, or ectoprocta, ar a phylum of small aquat anim live in coloni. the coloni usual have a skeleton of calcium carbon. bryozoan have a long fossil histori, start in the ordovician. in their life-style thei resembl the polyp which form coral. bryozoa ar known inform as moss anim or sea mat. thei gener like warm, tropic water but can be found all over the world. there ar about 4,000 live speci, and 15,000 fossil speci ar known. 

the coloni ar form by tini member call zooid. these secret tube, usual of lime , sometim of chitin, an organ compound. all bryozoa have a lophophor. thi is a ring of ten tentacl surround the mouth, each tentacl cover with cilia. when feed, the zooid extend the lophophor outward; when rest it is withdrawn into the mouth to protect it from predat. 

 bryozoan can reproduc both sexual and asexu. all bryozoan, as far as is known, ar hermaphrodit .

all member of a coloni ar clone: thei ar genet ident, produc by asexu reproduct. thi occur by bud off new zooid from the first zooid. so the coloni grow; thi is the wai a coloni expand in size. if a piec of a bryozoan coloni break off, the piec can continu to grow and will form a new coloni.

all zooid in a coloni ar link by strand of epitheli cell. the individu member of a coloni, the zooid, ar in some speci generalis: thei feed, and thei can reproduc on occas. but in most speci the zooid ar specialis to diffent function. in thi case the feed zooid ar call autozooid, and the non-feed member ar call heterozooid. function perform by heterozooid includ sexual reproduct, protect, locomot, plumb, structur support. the function of some heterozooid is still unknown. the commonest function is that egg ar develop in brood chamber on femal or hermaphrodit heterozooid. there ar variat in the detail: sometim a littl complex of heterozooid produc larva in a cooper effort.p4

anoth wai to describ the bryozoa which develop heterozooid is to sai thei ar polymorph. thi term is us in biologi to describ the wai a genet unifi popul develop into clearli distinct form. the polymorph is usual control by genet switch mechan, but in bryozoa there is littl knowledg of their genet. 

most speci of bryozoan live in marin environ. there ar about 50 speci which inhabit freshwat. in their aquat habitat, bryozoan mai be found on all type of hard substrat: sand grain, rock, shell, wood, blade of kelp, pipe and ship mai be heavili encrust with bryozoan. some bryozoan coloni, howev, do not grow on solid substrat, but form coloni on sediment. while some speci have been found at depth of 8,200 m, most bryozoan live in much shallow water. most bryozoan ar sessil and immobil, but a few coloni ar abl to creep about, and a few speci of non-coloni bryozoan live and move about in the space between sand grain. on remark speci make it live while float in the southern ocean. sever bryozoan speci can be found in the midwestern unit state, especi in ohio, indiana, and kentucki which us to be a part of a larg ocean.

their diet consist of small microorgan, includ diatom and other unicellular alga. in turn, bryozoan ar prei on by graze organ such as sea urchin and fish. 

bryozoan ar almost entir coloni-form anim. mani million of individu can form on coloni. the coloni rang from millimet to meter in size, but the individu that make up the coloni ar tini, usual less than a millimet long. in each coloni, differ individu have differ function. some individu gather up the food for the coloni , other depend on them . some individu ar devot to strengthen the coloni , and still other to clean the coloni . there is onli a singl known solitari speci, monobryozoon ambulan, which doe not form coloni.

bryozoan skeleton grow in a varieti of shape and pattern: mound-shape, laci fan, branch twig, and even corkscrew-shape. their skeleton have mani tini open. each open is the home of zooid. thei have a bodi with a u-shape gut, open at the mouth and at the anu. thei feed with their lophophor. the tentacl of the bryozoan ar ciliat. the beat of the cilia creat a current of water which drive food toward the mouth. in some group, notabl some ctenostom, a gizzard mai be form. 

bryozoan do not have a respiratori, or a blood system, becaus their small size allow diffus of gase and nutrient. howev, thei do have a simpl nervou system, and muscl, which togeth can quickli take the zooid down into it shelter.

on speci of bryozoan, bugula neritina, is of current interest as a sourc of chemic, bryostatin, which ar under investig as anti-cancer agent.

fossil bryozoan ar found in rock begin in the earli ordovician. thei were, from then on, abund in the palaeozo era. thei were major compon of seab commun and, like modern-dai bryozoan, plai an import role in sediment stabil and bind, as well as provid sourc of food for other benthic organ. dure the lower carbonifer 354 to 323 million year ago, bryozoan were so common that their broken skeleton form entir limeston bed. bryozoan fossil record compris more than 15,000 speci. 

most fossil bryozoan have miner skeleton. the skeleton of individu zooid vari from tubular to box-shape and contain a termin apertur from which the lophophor is protrud to feed. no pore ar present in the great major of ordovician bryozoan, but skelet evid show that epithelia were continu from on zooid to the next.

some bryozoa lack miner skeleton. the statoblast of freshwat phylactolaem have been record as far back as the permian, and the ctenostom fossil date onli from the triassic.

on of the most import event dure bryozoan evolut wa the acquisit of a calcar skeleton and the relat chang in the mechan of tentacl protrus. the rigid of the outer bodi wall gave protect against predat, a greater degre of zooid contigu, and the evolut of massiv, multiseri coloni form.

<titl>biennial plant</titl>
a biennial plant is a flower plant that take two year to complet it lifecycl. in the first year the plant grow leav, stem, and root ; then it enter a period of dormanc over the colder month. usual, the stem remain veri short and the leav ar low to the ground, form a rosett. mani biennial requir a cold treatment, befor thei will flower. the next spring/summer the stem of the biennial plant becom much longer. the plant then flower, produc fruit and seed befor it final di. there ar far fewer biennial than either perenni or annual.

under extrem climat condit, a biennial plant mai complet it lifecycl in a veri short period of time . thi is quit common in veget or flower seedl that were expos to cold condit, befor thei were plant in the ground. thi behaviour lead to mani normal biennial plant be treat as annual in some area. flower can be induc in some biennial by applic of the plant hormon gibberellin, but thi is rare done commerci.

from a garden's perspect, a plant's statu as annual, biennial, or perenni often vari base on locat or purpos. biennial grown for flower, fruit, or seed need to be grown for two year. biennial that ar grown for edibl leav or root ar grown as annual, e.g. beet, brussel sprout, cabbag, carrot, celeri, parslei, and swiss chard. if a normal biennial plant is grown in extrem harsh condit, it is like to be treat as an annual becaus it will not surviv the winter cold. convers, an annual grown under extrem favour condit mai have highli success seed propag, give it the appear of be biennial or perenni. some short-live perenni mai appear to be biennial rather than perenni. true biennial flower onli onc, while mani perenni will flower everi year onc matur.

exampl of biennial plant ar parslei, lunaria, silverbeet, sweet william, colic weed, and carrot. the pansi is a biennial often grown as an annual. plant breeder have produc annual cultivar of sever biennial that will flower the first year from seed, e.g. foxglov, stock, and hollyhock.

biennial mai be kept aliv longer than two year under environment condit that prevent them from flower. biennial sugar beet wa prevent from flower by not give it the cold treatment requir for flower. it wa kept aliv in a greenhous for 41 month.

<titl>bai leaf</titl>
bai leaf , is the aromat leaf of sever speci of the laurel famili . fresh or dri bai leav ar us in cook for their distinct flavor and fragranc. 

<titl>brassical</titl>
the brassical ar an order of flower plant. thei ar in the eurosid ii group of dicotyledon under the apg ii system.

<titl>blind</titl>
blind is the inabl to see anyth. some peopl ar call blind, even though thei can see a littl bit. thi is becaus thei cannot see clearli, but onli see fuzzi shape or colour. 

in modern countri, few young peopl ar blind. in all the world, blind is mostli caus by malnutrit and diseas of old peopl, like cataract and trachoma. peopl can becom blind becaus of diseas or accid, but sometim peopl ar born blind.

some peopl ar color blind, which mean thei can see, but cannot tell certain colour apart. 

when peopl ar blind thei us such thing as the alphabet in braill and guid dog to do everi dai life thing. 

famou blind peopl have includ loui braill, the inventor of the braill alphabet, stevi wonder, and helen keller. 

<titl>symphoni no. 9 (beethoven)</titl>
symphoni no 9 in d minor op 125 by ludwig van beethoven is on of the most famou piec of music ever written.

a symphoni is a piec of music for orchestra. beethoven wrote nine symphoni. thi on, the last on he wrote, is veri unusu becaus the last movement also ha sing in it: there ar four soloist and a choir. thi is why it is known as the “choral” symphoni . it is a veri long work, last more than an hour. thi, too, wa unusu.

thi symphoni ha four movement. the first movement is in sonata form. the second and third movement come the other wai round from the usual order: the second movement is the scherzo and the third movement is the slow movement. it is a theme and variat. the last movement set the word of a poem by friedrich schiller, a famou poet who had onli recent di. the poem wa call od an die freud . the poem ha a strong messag to all mankind: it is about live in peac and harmoni togeth. it wa written at the time of the french revolut when these idea were becom veri import in europ.

the main tune of the last movement is on of the best known tune in the world. mani children like to plai it on instrument becaus the first part of the tune onli us five note . when the tune come the first time in the symphoni it is plai by the cello and doubl bass.

the od to joi wa adopt as europ's “nation anthem” in 1972, with an offici arrang for orchestra written by herbert von karajan.

beethoven had been interest in schiller’s famou poem sinc he wa young. in 1817 he start to write the first two movement of the symphoni. in 1822 he decid to us schiller’s poem in the symphoni. most of the rest of the symphoni wa written in 1823 and he finish it in 1824. it wa first perform in mai of that year. beethoven conduct the perform. the stori is told that he wonder why the audienc were not applaud when it had finish. thei were applaud, but beethoven wa deaf so he could not hear. someon made him turn round, and he saw that peopl were applaud enthusiast.

<titl>bomber</titl>
a bomber is a type of airplan that is us to attack ground target, mainli by drop bomb. the first bomber were made at the start of world war i.

bomber usual fly low to the ground and can fly at slow speed. becaus of thi, bomber ar not outfit to fight other airplan. to make up for thi, bomber have mani gun. 

 bomber in world war ii had larg crew, sometim as mani as 12 peopl. usual a bomber had a pilot, a bombadi, a co-pilot/navig, a nose gunner, a gunner on the bottom which could shoot forward and back, a tail gunner, a top gunner, and a coupl of side gunner.

 bomber now have on or two peopl in them. the other posit have been replac by comput. bomber have veri few gun on them partli becaus thei ar much faster. in bomb mission now, the pilot drop a bomb and leav as quickli as possibl. in the vietnam war, bomber were made that could travel at mach 2 or mach 3, so a nuclear bomb could be drop without kill the peopl in the airplan. thi tactic wa never us, obvious, but it chang the purpos of bomber.

<titl>cue sport</titl>
cue sport ar game plai with ball on a cloth-cover tabl that ha rubber rail around it to keep the ball on the tabl. two or more peopl us stick to make on ball hit other ball. in the past, all cue sport were call billiard, but that term ha variou differ mean in differ area. 

<titl>bursa</titl>
bursa is a citi innorthwestern turkei and the seat of the bursa provienc.the popul of citi is about 2 million. bursa is the fourth largest citi,and also on of the most industrializ citi in the countri.sometim the citi call "yeşil bursa" which mean "green bursa" becaus of the larg park, forest and garden in the urban area of the citi.bursa is home of uludağ univers. uludağ is an import ski resort in turkei.the citi ha a nation park in uludağ to protect the natur life in the mountin area.

<titl>the bahama</titl>
the commonwealth of the bahama is a group of island in the west indi. the countri's capit, nassau, is on new provid island.

the taino were the first peopl live there. in 1492, christoph columbu found the america by land on anoth of the island, san salvador.

the island' mostli black popul speak english, the countri's main languag.

the bahama ar a popular place for peopl to visit for holidai, the 700 island and cai attract a larg number of visitor from nearbi america, as well as europ and other countri.

 nearli 500,000 peopl live in the bahama. the ethnic group of the popul is: 82.1% african descent 15.4% mix 1.5% asian and other.

<titl>baker island</titl>
baker island is a small coral island, or atol, in the north pacif ocean. it is just abov of the equat. it belong of the unit state. the unit state depart of the interior is in charg of the island, which is current call the baker island nation wildlif refug. no peopl can live on the island becaus it is for anim onli. 

the island ha no tree. the island is surround by a coral reef, which make the atol hard to approach in a boat.

<titl>bangladesh</titl>
bangladesh is a countri in south asia, locat next to the north-east indian provinci region of india, which converg with southeast asia to the east. it full name is the peopl's republ of bangla-desh. the capit and the largest citi is dhaka . bangladesh is surround on all three side by the republ of india , and is in close proxim to the peopl's republ of china, bhutan, sikkim and nepal. it's independ wa fulli realis after it declar it self as independ most of 1971 from pakistan after a bloodi war in which over a million peopl di. later by indian militari intervent, by that time the provision govern went into exil in calcutta, bengal which thei consid their homeland to be under pakistani militari occup. after the instrument of surrend, the bengali peopl becam a sovereign nation and when it's founder wa releas from polit imprison had return in 1972. present-dai bangladesh ha an area of 55,126 mi² or . it is bigger than tajikistan but smaller than nepal. 

the local currenc is call taka. the offici languag is bengali.

there ar two main river in bangladesh, the ganga river and the brahmaputra river ar holi to hindu. there ar often flood becaus of these two river. 

bangladesh us to be call east bengal, after thei had fought hard for a muslim homeland in 1947 and wa made a part of unit pakistan, howev by 1955 it's citizen were commonli refer to as east pakistani. dacca wa then the legisl capit of pakistani bengal provinci region. the peopl of east pakistan were mostli ethnic bengali who had a differ languag and cultur to the peopl of western pakistani. these differ eventu led to civil war. on 16 decemb 1971, bangladesh gain independ, with the help of alli forc against west pakistani forc. 

follow the birth of bangladesh, bangla replac urdu and english as the sole nation and offici languag, and wa the languag taught in school and us in busi and govern. the bangla academi wa import in thi chang. in the 1980s, british-style educ wa maintain through privat english-languag institut attend by upper class children. english continu to be taught in higher educ and wa offer as a subject for univers degre. 

at first, arab also lost ground in independ bangladesh. thi trend end in the late 1970s, howev, after bangladesh strengthen it ti with saudi arabia and other oil-rich, arab-speak countri. an unsuccess attempt wa made in 1983 to introduc arab as a requir languag in primari and secondari level. arab is wide studi in madrassa and islam institut around the countri for better understand of the quran, hadith and ani other islam text.

 despit 30 year of independ, bangladesh is still a veri poor countri and ha problem with corrupt and polit troubl. less than half of the peopl can read and write.

bangladesh ha heavi cyclon and natur disast, which becaus the countri is on of the most dens popul in the world, mani live ar often lost. cyclon ar veri common in the bai of bengal dure the middl of the year, particularli in the south of countri in area like sundarban, chittagong, cox's bazaar or in neighbor myanmar and republ of india. despit the mani storm, bangladesh doe not have a veri effect storm prevent system, and cyclon usual inflict heavi damag.

<titl>barbado</titl>
barbado is an island countri in the caribbean sea. the island ha an area of about 430 km². it capit is bridgetown. the offici languag of barbado is english. barbado is a popular tourist destin. the island ha a popul of about 276 607 peopl .

 the popul of barbado is about 300,000 peopl, nearli 80% of that is predominatlei of african descent, 16% ar mulatto and 4% other. there is also a east indian minor on the island and chines and other ethnic group.

<titl>belaru</titl>
belaru is a countri in eastern europ. about nine million peopl live there. it capit is minsk. it wa part of the soviet union until 1991. the offici languag ar belarusian and russian. the presid of belaru is alexand lukashenko. it is border by russia, ukrain, poland, lithuania and latvia. 

	 the state is a member of the un, the ci collect secur treati organ, the eurasian econom commun, the union state of russia and belaru , as well as a member of other intern organ.

<titl>beliz</titl>
beliz is a countri in central america. peopl in beliz speak english or creol, instead of spanish, which is what the peopl in the countri around it speak. thi is becaus beliz wa a former coloni of great britain, while it neighbor were coloni of spain. it wa formerli call british hondura.

over two hundr and sixti thousand peopl live in beliz. belmopan, which is locat in the centr of the countri, is it capit.

<titl>benin</titl>
benin is a countri in africa. it us to be call dahomei and wa a coloni of franc. the fon peopl who live here ar close relat to the peopl of haiti.

<titl>bermuda</titl>
bermuda is about 130 island in the atlant ocean of the east coast of north america that ar rule by great britain. bermuda is a popular tourist place.

